MASKED_NAME
MASKED_ADDRESS, JERSEY CITY NJ 07307
MASKED_EMAIL  • 551.227.6212
Summary:
Self-motivated IT Professional with 10+ years of experience and accomplishments in the areas of Project Management, Project Coordination, Business Analysis, Process Improvements, Change Management, MASKED_LOCATION project timelines and deliverables. Highly creative & detail-oriented, recognized as a results-oriented & solution-focused individual with excellent leadership & communication skills.
Remarkable experience in leading & delivering medium to large scale, multiple & highly visible service-oriented & customer-focused (Business & IT) projects such as software development, web/mobile application development, product management & technology implementation projects, with a good track record of successfully completing projects within triple constraints (Time, Cost & Quality). Exposure to various industry projects such as Technology, Digital Advertising, Media, Finance, Banking, ecommerce and Healthcare industries.
Spearheaded successful project implementation & launches, resulting in enhanced productivity by 38% in a twelve month period. Successfully completed several critical implementations and these successes have brought in approximately $8 million in revenue.
Experiences working with cross-functional team environment with clients located in different geographical locations and have managed onshore & offshore team. 
Experience managing projects through all the phases of the Project Life Cycle (such as initiation, planning, execution, control, and closure) as well as overlook the post-implementation support phase to ensure excellent client support and exceed user expectations. 
Experience facilitating Requirements gathering & Technical Specification discussions, conducting JAD sessions with user groups, stakeholders, SMEs & development team. Good understanding of project processes with an ability to analyze business problems & identify solutions.
Well versed in project management tools like MS Project & JIRA, proficient in development & maintenance of Project Charter, Project plan, Statement of Work (SOW’s), Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), Project schedule, issue/risk register and other project related documentation.
Experience managing a team, provide mentoring & coaching to project team personnel in implementing the organizational standard processes & procedures, develop team competencies and help maintain positive attitude at the workplace. 
Remarkable experience managing project execution efforts, closely worked with technical team & product owners to coordinate the product development efforts with good understanding of software engineering methods such as Waterfall & Agile (SCRUM). Demonstrated success in project management using recognized PMI methodologies and SDLC (software development life cycle) processes.
Adept at tracking & monitoring project schedule, budget, progress & milestones to ensure project success. Ability to effectively monitor and control project risks & issues; escalate issues when needed to ensure outmost quality of project deliverables. 
Exceptional documentation skills, managing project communication & status reporting with an ability to effectively communicate with senior leadership, project team & business stakeholders. Led status meetings, client presentations & calls throughout the project implementation. 
Managed the project delivery, process improvement & change management efforts to deliver exceptional value to clients and create efficiencies to their existing workflows & business practices by fulfilling business demands and Service Level Agreement’s (SLAs) objectives.
Deliver top-notch project implementation & support, adept at system troubleshooting, review test cases, triage system issues/bug, conduct User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and overlook release process (MASKED_NAME deployments). Proactive in identifying potential issues or risks and implementing solutions to prevent any delays in timeline or impact budget or business operations.
Excellent verbal & written communication skills, ability to communicate clearly & effectively with technical & non-technical audience with exceptional client facing skillset.  
Ability to make complex strategic decisions & prioritize competing initiatives. Effectively conduct difficult negotiations and resolve conflicts.
Excellent time management, decision making, problem solving, leadership and planning skills with the ability to learn quickly and multitask in a fast paced environment. 
Language: English, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION.
Professional Development:
Certificate of Project Management from edX & University of Adelaide (August, 2017)
Certificate of Google Analytics Platform Principles from Google (March, 2014)
Accomplishments:
Awarded with a Certificate of Excellence by Greencrest Capital Management LLC
Awarded with an Award of Excellence by New York Institute of Technology 
Awarded with scholarship by New York Institute of Technology
Certificate of recognition in practicum with Aroncon Project
Tools & Technology:
Experience:
Project Manager	February 2017 to Present
Bed Bath and Beyond	Union, NJ 
Spearheaded IT system development, enhancement & technology implementation initiatives for a web based application & mobile applications (native ios and Android), releases and managed the cross-functional implementation of the plan.
Interviewed business stakeholders & SME’s for analyzing requirements, coordinated project activities with business functions & technical project teams from Inception through execution of the development efforts.
Acted as client’s principal point of contact throughout the project execution & follow ups. Monitored project statuses, delivered status reporting for overall project activities with a weekly status reports to the business stakeholders, project team and Sr. management. 
Worked extensively with the business users & client project teams to meet business requirements and analyze workflow practices. 
Recorded detailed client project requirements, constraints & assumptions with stakeholders in order to establish project deliverables such as and the project charter, requirements documents, scope documents using requirement-gathering techniques (e.g., planning, sessions, brainstorming, focus groups). 
Develop & manage project schedules, estimates, project plan and other project artifacts. 
Facilitated various Scrum ceremonies, managed Vision, backlogs and sprints, removed impediments, managed risk and project communications with Scrum team & business stakeholders. 
Responsible for executing project tasks & activities as defined in the project plan in order to achieve project goals. Includes executing all parts of the project plan and managing the budget/forecast.  
Tracked IT budget, resource monthly burn rate, project costs, milestones, deliverables, hours worked against plan and invoice payments.  Partnered in creating and tracking issues, risks, escalations that could impact project goals, project schedules and changes.
Created weekly team and executive status reports, including collaborating with senior level business and IT executives to ensure milestone and key deliverables were met. 
Partnered in managing changes to the project scope, project schedule, and project costs using appropriate verification techniques in order to keep the project plan accurate, updated and reflective of authorized project changes as defined in the change management plan.  Facilitated customer acceptance, producing project deliverables and following PMBOK principles and guidelines. 
Drive the initial review to identify and gather documents for business and functional requirements. 
 Maintain an in-depth knowledge of business operations and understand the technical scope and objectives of the project.
 Coordinate with Business Partners, Product team & Development team to identify and define system specifications, indicate areas of system impact, enhancements and facilitate strategic discussions, product review and product roadmap sessions. 
 Assist in developing and implementing a communication plan to keep program managers and other stakeholders informed of project status, key future dates/milestones, new and outstanding issues, identified risks, decisions needed, and project spending. 
Take the project from original concept to final implementation using SDLC.
Develop detailed work plans, schedules, project estimates, resource plans, and status reports for all business resources and end users.
Key project lead for assigned projects working closely with the Senior Project Manager and department contact lead.
 Facilitate user acceptance testing (UAT), user training sessions and help with system implementation & onboarding efforts.  
 MASKED_NAME a strong team environment and help subordinates as needed. 
Project Manager	January 2014 to January 2017
Paradigm Software Technologies d.b.a. Nexelus	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Spearheaded a crucial project in partnership with Google AdWords Team throughout the project lifecycle to implement runtime budget order insertion process of digital media & Google Invoice automation for Media agencies through an exclusive API’s developed to streamline their media buying/spending processes. Contributed to successful closure of project, with application released on time and under budget.
Managed several prestigious client accounts and multiple key projects consisting of IT System development, mobile (native ios & Android)  app. development, system BI capabilities & implementation projects with successful Implementation within different industry focus.
Spearheaded successful project implementation & launches, resulting in enhanced productivity by 38% over a twelve month period. Successfully completed several critical implementations and these successes have brought in approximately $8 million in revenues.
Worked in matrix team structure and collaborated with cross-functional team throughout the project.  Managed clients & teams based out of different geographical locations including offshore team.    
Managed projects end to end starting with project initiation, planning to execution & control through project closure as well as overlook the post-implementation support phase to ensure excellent client support and achieving project success.  
Facilitated Requirements Gathering session & Technical Specification discussions with user groups, stakeholders, SME’s & development team. Ability to translate business requirements into technical specifications and help coordinate the project kickoff process.  
Good understanding of project processes and ability to analyze business problems, identify project risk & make intelligent recommendation to mitigate risk and provide timely solutions to problems/challenges faced.  
Well versed in project management tools like MS Project & JIRA and partnered in development & maintenance of Project Charter, Project plan, Statement of Work (SOW’s), Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), Project schedule & other project related documentation. 
Managed team, provided mentoring & coaching to project team personnel in implementing the organizational standard processes & procedures, developed team competencies, prioritized team responsibilities and helped maintain positive attitude at the workplace. 
Closely worked with technical team and product owners to coordinate the product development and project execution efforts. Demonstrated  good understanding of software engineering methods such as Waterfall & Agile (SCRUM) and proved success in project management using recognized PMI methodologies and SDLC (software development life cycle) processes.  
Adept at tracking & monitoring project schedule, budget, progress & milestones to ensure project success. Collaborated effectively with project & product owners to ensure project deliverables remained on track and aligned with business goals and expectations.
Effectively monitored and controlled project risks & issues; proactively engaged in escalation of product issues/bugs to Development & QA teams, recommended solutions to ensure deliverables quality and on-time closure of the project. 
Exceptional documentation skills, managed project communication & statuses and effectively communicated with senior leadership, project team & business stakeholders. Led status meetings, client presentations & calls throughout the project implementation. 
Managed the project delivery, process improvement & change management efforts to deliver exceptional value to clients and create efficiencies to their existing workflows & business practices by fulfilling business demands and Service Level Agreement’s (SLAs) objectives.
Performed root-cause analysis thoroughly to resolve complicated system problem & communicated about support issues with both technical and non-technical audiences. Responsible for troubleshooting Application/Data issue in order to identify the bug or cause, triage bugs, and proactively provided timely resolution to support related issues.
Executed SQL queries to draw insights from client reporting data sets and communicated results & insights in business language to clients based on system reporting.  Overlooked release process (MASKED_NAME deployments), conducted User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and performed user training & walk through sessions for the efficient usage of software application.
Cycle time reduction in effectively resolving the Helpdesk Ticket by about 36% resolution process over a period of 10 months, demonstrated ability to handle multiple priorities and sustaining a high level of performance when under pressure.
Made complex strategic decisions & prioritized competing initiatives. Effectively conducted difficult negotiations and resolved conflicts.
Liaised with internal & external project stakeholders and acted as primary point of contact throughout project execution and support.
Extensive business as well as technical acumen of Software Modules: from timesheet & expense report entry thru purchasing & Accounts Payable, workflow & resource management, to billing & Accounts Receivable; End-user training; General MASKED_NAME and Financial reporting. Technical familiarity of Nexelus system environment integrating with different financial systems such as Oracle, Microsoft GP and Microsoft AX Dynamics. Familiarity working with XML and SQL SPs (stored procedures).
Project Manager	July MASKED_ADDRESS Capital Management LLC (March 2011 to December 2013)	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Spearheaded key Investments and technology implementation projects and participated in capital raising projects for secondary investments in late stage private technology companies.
Successfully executed Shareholders Liquidity Program (SLP) by establishing and maintaining relationships with potential sellers of high-interest pre-IPO shares. Supported deal execution projects from start to finish, including planning, executing, and completing capital raises for secondary investments.
Liaised with business stakeholders and investors, ensuring timely and consistent communication with all stakeholders. Managed project time-lines to ensure quality, on-time deliverables and identifying and resolving key issues and risks. Lead a team of Associates and operational staff.
Boosted research division efficiency & revenues. Research, analyze and identify potential companies that create market in the private space and examine sector trends, dynamics and investment opportunities for institutional investors. 
Overhauled the research division to focus on industry reports and helped with the efforts of identifying & tracking late stage private companies based on potential for IPO or high profile M&A.
Managed Project Management related activities starting from project inception to Creation of Project Plans, MASKED_NAME, Budgeting & Forecasting, and Managing Program Level Risks & maintain Issue Logs.
Responsible for project success and day to day project execution; act as single point of contact for Client, Vendors & various Stakeholders.
Closely worked with senior research team on many aspects of equity research including: primary & secondary research, financial modeling, financial analysis, financial forecasting & valuation, due diligence, conducted wide array of industry analysis, SWOT analysis, competitive assessments in MASKED_NAME space, developed & fielded industry surveys. Served as point of contact for investors, clients and media.
Introduced & implemented an enterprise platform for streamlining insight generation and CRM sales funnel process for subscriptions. Implemented a new CRM software Salesforce enterprise-wide and maintained proprietary firm CRM Salesforce database.
Ensured prioritization and development of strategic initiatives by effectively managing project priorities, planning, organization, implementation and control of all initiatives.
 Planned and led meetings with senior management, sponsors, stakeholders and functional leads to provide status updates and highlight risks / issues, accomplishments and future steps.
Boosted operational efficiency by reducing costs to 30% and maintaining vendor relationship. Created, updated, designed, and organized all distributable materials for marketing and investor communications, including pitch books, investor review materials, performance summaries, as well as ad hoc meetings.
Worked with senior management on daily basis to manage risks and issues and working with various stakeholders – Traders, Quantitative Risk team, Operations team, Credit Risk team, Finance teams, Legal, Regulatory &amp; Compliance teams, Technology teams in managing the strategy of implementing investment programs.
Prepared monthly, quarterly & annual accounts of the company. Prepared and maintained the year end filing and closing of the investment fund. Responsible for Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payable, Payroll and finances of the company.
Established client relationship and enriched them by providing exceptional one-2-one support for company’s research services. 
Project Coordinator/Business Operations Specialist	March MASKED_ADDRESS Capital Management LLC	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Spearheaded the administration & operations of the company by providing support to the senior management, sales team and research team of the company. Participated in capital raising projects for secondary investments in late stage private technology companies.
 Worked on simultaneous client engagements from start to finish, including planning, executing, and completing capital raising projects for alternative investment managers.
Successfully executed Shareholders Liquidity Program (SLP) by establishing and maintaining relationships with potential sellers of high-interest pre-IPO shares. Supported deal execution projects from start to finish, including planning, executing, and completing capital raises for secondary investments.
Analyzed company financial, valuation, business model, and industry dynamics, communicating the “equity story” in context of institutional client investment objectives.
Developed and monitored investment processes and back office infrastructure to support and streamline deal flow. Reviewed and continuously improved processes to increase efficiency and ensure quality of deal flow.
Assisted in preparing offering memorandums, management presentations and term sheets for investment purposes.
Conducted research and participated in due diligence, weekly deal meetings and teach-in sessions for the sales team.
Created, designed, and organized all distributable materials for marketing and investor communications, including pitch books, company teaser, term sheets, investor review materials, performance summaries, as well as ad hoc meetings.
Analyzed business models and participated in due diligence calls, client meetings and managed a virtual dataroom.
Managed a database of over 500 clients, prospects, and consultants for reporting and compliance issues related to the secondary investment industry practices in accordance with the Securities Exchange Commission guidelines.
Prepared monthly, quarterly & annual accounting reports of the company. Prepared and maintained the year end filing and closing of the investment fund. Responsible for Accounts Receivables, Accounts Payable, Payroll and finances of the company.
Administered HR procedures and policies. Introduced a new HR package for a new hire and helped new employee with the HR documentation and the on—boarding process. Participated in training and development of junior team and new hires.
Served as a point of contact for investors, clients, media and prospective clients.
MASKED_NAME Assistant	January 2009 to March 2011
New York Institute of Technology	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Promoted as a Graduate Assistant, designed and launched academic exchange programs for a newly started department on-campus. Arranged and managed company visits for international students and conducted medical counseling and wellness sessions.
Conducted research and introduced a whole new MBA Program and Exchange programs for NYIT’s School of Management. Provided support and solution to international students regarding admission, financial aid, housing, and insurance.
Business Executive	May MASKED_ADDRESS 2007
Active Eye Security Solutions	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Assessed business needs; Increased clientele through developing and presenting proposals, resolving issues promptly and effectively.
Set project goals and expected outcomes to define project success. Established and measured project performance criteria, including quality standards, proposed timetables and cost estimates.
Increased profit in existing accounts by introducing additional solutions and services to quantify the performance of company. Increased customer satisfaction by introducing and implementing a new feedback system to get client feedback and response.
Consulting Project:
Senior Consultant – Investment Banking	January 2012 to February 2013
PE Source - Knight Capital Group, Equity Capital Markets	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Analyzed company financial, valuation, business model, and industry dynamics, communicating the “equity story” in context of institutional client investment objectives. Conducted research and participated in due diligence, weekly deal meetings and teach-in sessions to assist sales team.
Supported deal execution projects from start to finish, including planning, executing, and completing capital raises for secondary investments.
Closely worked with Institutional buy-side clients and Knight’s in-house counsel to ensure compliance with legal and NDA paperwork as a part of the deal execution process. Assisted in preparing offering memorandums, management presentations and term sheets for investment purposes.
Education:
Master of Business Administration – Management & Finance	2011
School of Management, New York Institute of Technology 	MASKED_LOCATION, NY
     Volunteer: International Student Ambassador at New York Institute of Technology, Student Government Association.
Bachelors of Business Administration – Marketing & Exports	2006
MASKED_NAME, Sardar Patel University	MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION