PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
More than MASKED_ADDRESS in diverse fields such as Finance, Mortgage, Trading, Insurance, Wealth Management, Banking, Investment Management and Accounting. 
Extensive experience in the development, implementation and integration strategies towards a team-oriented environment, utilizing quantitative and qualitative analytical skills. With ease in communicating/converting clients vague/non-technical requirements into precise/concise representation to the team. 
Knowledge of Capital Markets, Initial Public Offering(IPO), Fixed Income Securities, Equity Securities, derivatives. 
Experience with investment banking regulatory/compliance reporting regulations like Basel II and III Accord. 
Experience in interviewing Business users & SME providing recommendations to resolve issues for various business/technical groups & defining strategic solutions to business problems in a multiple project environment. 
Extensive experience in Banking Industry group including Credit, Risk, Investment and Operational Risk Banking that involve knowledge in CCAR, Basel II, Basel III
Experienced in working with User Interface team in creating MASKED_NAME and Wireframes 
Proficient in authoring Business Requirement Documents (BRD), System Requirement Specifications (SRS) and identifying interfaces and business process specifications. 
Experience in developing detailed functional specs through JAD sessions, interviews, on site meetings with business users & development team. 
Strong experience in working with all phases of SDLC throughout the project life cycle in Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM) environment. 
Mature understanding of Quality Assurance Methodology relative to SDLC.
Experienced in creating various Unified MASKED_NAME (UML) Diagrams using UML modeling tools such as MASKED_NAME. 
Proficient in documentation of As-is and To-be business processes. 
Proficient in utilizing Project Management tools, project plans, project schedules, resource planning and management, budgeting, project kickoff meetings, status meetings, and timeline management. 
Knowledge of GAP Analysis, Traceability Matrices, SWOT Analysis, Risk Analysis, Data Analysis, Competitive Analysis, Impact Analysis, and Cost Benefit Analysis 
Knowledge of Commercial Off the Shelf Products (COTS) 
Did User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Manual testing (Functionality Testing) of UI and Web Applications. 
Worked with the Testing Team in reviewing Test Procedures, Test plans, Test cases for quality assurance. 
Tracking defects and interacting with team members in fixing errors. 
Experienced in creating MASKED_NAME and providing End User Training 
Excellent interpersonal and customer relational Skills. Enthusiastic and a self-starter with a need of minimal inputs.
EDUCATIONAL DETAILS:
Bachelor’s in engineering and Technology.
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Citi Bank, NJ                                                                                                                      Aug MASKED_ADDRESS, Commercial Banking IT
Responsibilities:	
IT Business Analyst & QA Analyst for Commercial Banking, dealing with releases involving compliance and regulatory Projects. 
Documented business requirements and system functional specifications in the form of BRDs and FSDs respectively and created Impact Matrix and Requirements Traceability Matrix. 
Interacted with business users and software development teams as a liaison in helping translate the business Requirements in technical standards ensuring the proposed applications and solutions comply with Business specifications. 
Collaborated with system architects, SMEs, Developers, QA and UAT teams and played a key role in planning, analysis, Design, and development and implementation phases to accomplish timely release objectives. 
Involved in Build Verification Testing, positive, negative and boundary testing, conducted system testing, and Regression Testing.
Documented Daily Defect Status with the help of QA metrics 
Reviewed and triaged defects. Bug reporting, Defect tracking and re-testing using ALM. 
Wrote SQL queries to test the database and to perform validations. 
Trained new joiners to the team on business functionalities and the processes. Organized daily calls with QA and DEV teams to clarify queries and triage issues during releases. 
Provided production support and clarified business queries for impacts and prioritization of any issues. 
Preparation of induction manuals and application documents. 
Worked closely with business users to develop the test scenarios. 
UAT kick off call and testing sessions with business users. 
Worked with Strategy team to provide feedback on sworn document future state process mapping. 
Logged critical defects and was appreciated by the UAT Program team.
Chase Bank, MASKED_LOCATION, Ohio                                                                                             Sep MASKED_ADDRESS
Responsibilities:
Facilitated Scrum planning meetings to coordinate between Clients, Product Owner, MASKED_NAME and MASKED_LOCATION teams. 
Shadow and assist some of the Product Owner activities by providing high level estimates, prioritizing stories for the sprint and maintaining backlogs and release plans. 
Performed GAP analysis by communicating with business head regarding the existing system and upgrades required. 
Interfaced with users to gather reporting and business requirements to create user stories, analyzed workflow and created new business processes and used JIRA to document use cases and user stories. 
Helped create sprint backlogs from the product backlog after sprint planning. 
Defined process flows for Lead Management, Application Processing, Underwriting and Closing and funding.
Defined the various business transactions and business rules dealing with digital payments, online banking, credit and debit cards. 
Developed user screens prototype and performed management sign-off. 
Created business process flows using MASKED_NAME for operations process. 
Worked with the MASKED_LOCATION and architect team to review and evaluate the Application for credit and debit card holders to view their activity and pay their bills online without any problem. 
Used UML diagrams to document the deployment scenarios. 
Coordinated with data modeling team in building the new data model, which will serve the better needs for Reports Development. 
Organized weekly Bug Triage meetings with the MASKED_NAME team and testing team to clear any pending tickets in regard to Bug fixing. 
Documented Test Plans that contains Test Scripts, Test Cases, Test Data and expected results for the Unit, Integration, Functional, Performance, and User Acceptance Testing, using Test Manager. 
Proactively worked with development and QA teams to fasten the project delivery. 
Conducted walkthroughs and documented and involved User Acceptance Test (UAT), provided training to user. 
Provided production support and released software updates. 
Documented the entire business process, user manuals with screen-shots for hand over. 
Provided on call support to end users for Tier 2 level. 
Escalated technical problem to the Tier 3 level support team and document it. 
Tracked the sheet until the problem is solved by the tier 2 team and document it.
Channelized Service request using Service Now for Tier 1 and 2 Production Support and Maintain release for builds created. 
Fidelity Investments, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION                                                                                  Jan MASKED_ADDRESS
Responsibilities:
Documented and validated the business process flow of Online Securities Trading System to use MS Word 
Continuously engage stake holders on MASKED_LOCATION II.5/ III requirements gathering especially on liquidity risk.
Outstanding expertise and professional experience across credit risk, market risk or liquidity risk.
Interacted with SMEs in Fixed Income, Bonds and Bond Trading Cycle, Bond Pricing, and Asset Management & used MS Outlook.
Wrote the functional and technical specifications and communicated requirements to development teams. 
Followed project development lifecycle, responsible for performing gap analysis, prepared the Project Plan according to the project scope, prepared BRD, FSD & used MS word for documentation & made slide to use, MS Power point.
Analyzed and investigated business user issues and worked with SME's and Managers to identify related "defects" and required "enhancements" in the application and captures business requirements.
Created and maintained complete development plans that included functional specifications, requirements engineering, Use Case modeling, risk assessment and mitigation, internal and external workflow. 
Involved in System test in the URL
Union Bank of India, MASKED_LOCATION                                                                                        Aug 2011 to Dec 2013
Business System / QA Analyst 
Responsibilities: 
System study and preparing business requirement documents and followed Agile Methodology. 
Dealt with Fixed income, Wealth Management, and Sales & Marketing. 
As a Technical Business Analyst Conducted requirements gathering sessions with different SOX Compliance Applications Development (AD) Managers, their teams, understand the current provision/authorization process, analyze it and provide the technical solutions to automate their application provision process. 
Provided feasible solutions and proof of concepts (POC) to the business users based on analysis. 
As a Business Analyst, Analyzed and Prepared Business Requirement Document (BRD), Functional Requirement Documents (FRD), Test Case Document (TCD) and Technical Requirement Documents (TRD) Deriving Implementation solutions. 
Serves as a conduit between the Business users/customers (internal and external customers) and the technology teams through which requirements flow. 
Assisted in identifying and quantifying Credit Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk 
Gather all the functional and technical requirements, maintain the info in internal 'Wiki/Confluence' sites. 
Coordinating functional requirements of application to Technical Lead and Team. 
Prepared SQL Stored Procedures APIs, performed debugging and fixed the issues. 
Define Project Scope, Goals and Deliverables that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders. 
Preparing Test Scenarios, Test Cases and Test scripts and performed Functional and Integration Testing Report & Track the issues with Technical Team, Make sure all the issues resolved before moving to Production. 
Coordinated as a Single Point of Contact for business users with regards to essential interactions during design, development and testing phases with offshore/onshore teams. 
Understand and analyzed the existing provision process directly which was in MASKED_LOCATION as a Service (SaaS) and provided the automation solutions. 
Attended weekly Business Analysis (BA's) meetings and provide all the changes/implementations of the application as part of the application release process. 
Had a discussion with MASKED_NAME and convey the Database schema changes. 
Taken Full responsibility of Application Changes (UI/DB/API's) in all the environments (Test, QA and Production), validate it and performed necessary Tests and finally validate the data. 
Conducting User Acceptance Test (UAT) with Business, execute test cases and get approval of the UAT. 
Discussed with Business Users about New Changes or Enhancements of Application and explained them about the technical feasibility of the same and provided the high-level estimation to complete it. 
MASKED_NAME and let technical team knows if any issues in application, create issue tickets, track it and make sure all issues get resolved well in time before production move. 
Providing Transition to Support knowledge to support team. 
Evoke Technologies, Hyderabad                                                                             December MASKED_ADDRESS, Mortgage Banking IT
Responsibilities: 
IT Business Analyst for Mortgage Banking, dealing with releases involving MASKED_NAME, RESPA-TILA/TRID.
Developed and managed the formal Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodology which includes Configuration Management, Requirements Management, UML Analysis and Design. 
Worked under Agile methodology and interacted with business heads to finalize the Business Requirements for the Application. Performed the requirement Ad-Hoc Analysis and documented the requirements. 
Closely interacted with designers and software developers to understand application functionality and navigational flow and keep them updated about Business users' sentiments.
Developed BRD, FRD, Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagrams and Wire Frame Diagrams So that developers and other stakeholders can understand the business process. 
Analyzed and investigated business user issues and worked with SME's and Managers to identify related "defects" and Required "enhancements" in the application and captures business requirements. 
Peer review, inspection, and Code Walkthroughs. 
Update the business on the progress of the testing effort. 
Handled the Defect tracking calls. 
Application training and domain knowledge.
Provided production support and clarified business queries for impacts and prioritization of any issues. 
Preparation of induction manuals and application documents. 
Preparation of test strategy, test requirements, test cases and test procedures based on Functional Requirement.