Summary
14 years of experience in IT
End-to-End Technical Program Manager for Cisco Finance – New Revenue Standards (MASKED_NAME.Oracle ERP Implementation and Support of Oracle 11i / R12 Financial Modules.
Strong expertise in Oracle Financials 11.5.2 to R12 (Accounts Receivables (AR), Accounts Payables (AP), General MASKED_NAME (GL),Fixed Asset (FA),Cash Management (CM)).
Led a large cross-functional team comprising of business architects, system architects, application development, QA, DBA, MASKED_NAME (EDW Enterprise Data Warehouse in MASKED_LOCATION), BI Launchpad (Business Objects Reporting Tool)technology infrastructure resources to deliver common frameworks & scale up the infrastructure to meet the demands of aBPM application delivery portfolio.
Lead an Enterprise Architecture team to formulate technology strategy in collaboration with key line of business executives. This strategy included a MASKED_ADDRESS. The key benefit drivers were efficiency gains leading to reduced headcount, compliance cost avoidance and hardware decommissioning savings.
Led an effort to select the BPM platform for mortgage technology from amongst the top BPM industry vendors (Pegasystems, Appian, IBM). Key activities included architecture assessment, sourcing strategy, contract negotiation, infrastructure setup, product adoption and enablement for internal application development teams.
Worked in NPI applications between Item Hub and NPI teams to coordinate any new product introduction in the NRS(New Revenue Standards) program in MASKED_LOCATION.
Customer focused, results driven technology executive with numerous years of leadership and extensive software engineering management experience
Well versed with a Global Delivery Model having managed technology delivery with large technology teams (onsite + offshore) based out of MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_LOCATION.
Rich experience in Program Management, Release Management, Change Management, InfrastructureManagement.
Rich experience inRetail, Infrastructure,Banking and Financial domain.
Experience in working with multiple vendors and geographically distributed teams.
CORE COMPETENCIES
Project and Program Management (PMO) 
Enterprise Release Management
Agile Principles and MASKED_NAME framework
ITIL based Service Level Delivery Management 
Problem / Incidence / Change Management 
Strategic Planning 
Leadership and People Management 
Mentorship, Training and Development 
Vendor Management
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Operating Systems	: Mac OS, Windows, MVS/OS
Domain			: Infrastructure, Retail, Banking and Financial Services
Technical		:Mainframes, AS400, PEGA PRPC, Oracle, PL/SQL
OPERATING SYSTEMS: OS/390, Z/OS Windows, MS DOS, MASKED_NAME OS
HARDWARE: IBM Mainframe S390, MASKED_LOCATION.
SOFTWARE PRODUCTS: Oracle, PL/SQL, MASKED_LOCATION, IBM MQ Series 5.3. SQL, JCL, Ezytreive, REXX, CICS, TSO / ISPF, IBM Utilities
Databases: DB2
Tools / Technologies:VSAM, ISPF, IDCAMS, SPUFI, File AID for DB2, QMF, SPUFI, File AID, Endevor, MASKED_NAME, BMC, Platinum tool for DB2, BI Launch Pad (Business Objects), MASKED_NAMEOther Applications/Tools used: 
Microsoft Office, MS Share Point, Microsoft Project Plan, MASKED_NAME, HP Project and Portfolio Management ( PPM ), BI Launchpad (Business Objects Reporting Tool), ITSM, BMC Remedy incidence and change mgmt, Lotus Notes, Service Now, Clarity, Salesforce, Rally, Jira, MASKED_NAME, PEGA
Certifications / Professional Awards:
Certified ScrumMaster (CSM)
Certified DCO Architect (CDA from PEGA systems)
Certified System Architect (CSA from PEGA Systems)
ServiceNow Administrator
Walmart People System (Infosys internal)
Warehouse Systems (Infosys internal)
Store Management System (Infosys internal)
Total Work Experience:						
Projects
Current Title: Program Manager
Current Client: Cisco 
Duration:  From Aug 2014- TILL DATE
Description:
New Revenue Standards (NRS):
NRS is the new converged global standard for revenue recognition, also known as the revenue standard portion of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standard). This new standard replaces existing MASKED_LOCATION GAAP rules for revenue recognition and brings all industries onto one single principles-based revenue standard.
NRS is the enterprise wide program that will enable MASKED_LOCATION to comply with the New Revenue Standard, targeted to go live on the Day 1 of FY19
NRS Program lifecycle is consisted of five Program Increments (PI) and two quarters of E2E Production simulation from Q1FY17 thru MASKED_NAME :
Business Requirements Gathering and Definition, Gap Analysis, Mapping, Systems and Environment Set-up, Testing, End-user Training, Post Production Support. 
Work with multiple cross functional teams collaboratively including business and development teams to analyze IT systems, and turn innovative concepts into effective ERP Application solutions.
Expertise in Creation of Oracle 11i & R12 Financial Documentation for training of key users. 
Excellent interpersonal and communication capabilities and extensive experience in dealing with people from various organizational levels and diverse cultural backgrounds. 
Successfully demonstrated excellent working relationship with teams across multiple gepographical locations. 
Proven abilities to leverage standard functionality to reduce IT costs, increase efficiency and optimize business results. 
Functional Requirements, Technical Requirements Gathering & Analysis Software Development of Lifecycle Oracle Applications 11.5.10 11.5.8 & R12: Accounts Receivables, MASKED_LOCATION, General MASKED_NAME, Fixed Assets, Cash Management, iExpenses, Report Manager, Property Manager, Purchasing, Order Management Order to Cash process, Inventory and Service Contracts.
Lead an enterprise architecture team to formulate technology strategy in collaboration with key line of business executives. This strategy included a MASKED_ADDRESS. The key benefit drivers were efficiency gains leading to reduced headcount, compliance cost avoidance and hardware decommissioning savings.
Led an effort to select the BPM platform for mortgage technology from amongst the top BPM industry vendors (Pegasystems, Appian, IBM). Key activities included architecture assessment, sourcing strategy, contract negotiation, infrastructure setup, product adoption and enablement for internal application development teams.
Led a large cross-functional team comprising of business architects, system architects, application development, QA, DBA, Middleware Administration, technology infrastructure resources to deliver common frameworks & scale up the infrastructure to meet the demands of a $10-$30MM annual BPM application delivery portfolio.
Assist Release management and Configuration across all the processes. Includes hands on in PEGA.
Planningprojects and scope changes through Microsoft Project Plan (MPP).
Metrics Report preparation through IPM+ (Infosys internal tool).
Use other client specific tools like HP ITSM, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, PREP. PEGA, MASKED_LOCATION
Prepare Weekly Status Reports and share with clients and Infosys Management on weekly basis.
Title: Program/Project Manager
Client: Fedex
Duration:  From 5 Aug 2013 TILL 26 Aug 2014
Description: Coordinating and implementing Hardware and server request from the initial request, build, configuration, move to production, and project closeout processes like planning, tracking, reviewing purchases and managing day – to – day activities.
Role and Responsibilities :
Planning through Microsoft Project Plan (MPP)
Tracking through MPP, MASKED_NAME, Infrastructure Readiness Coordniator Tracking Tool
Metrics Report preparation through IPM+ (Infosys internal tool).
Use other client specific tools like HP ITSM, MASKED_NAME, IRC Tracker, Equipment Purchase Database, Infra Capacity Management, IP Address Distribution (IPAD) Lookup.
Prepare Weekly Status Reports and share with clients and Infosys Management on weekly basis.
Coordinated with multiple vendors from geographically distributed teams for successful implementation of servers.
Title: Project Manager (MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION)
Client: Sysco Foods 
Duration:  From 07 Dec 2012 TILL 15 July 2013
Description: There are around 70 Operating Companies (OpCo) where each OpCo is comprised of three components namely – Vendor, MASKED_NAME and Customer.
Leading this enhancement will provide an automated process for searching on existing Vendors, Item and Customers in Sysco Unified Systems (SUS) built in AS400 technology. Currently, each OpCo is designed to pull data from MDM (Master Data Management) system built from Corporate which is a single unit connecting all the OpCos for billing, reporting and all other IT related services. Going forward, the corporate will be converted to a SAP technology application which means an Enhancement has to be made at each MASKED_LOCATION level to build a new interface with the SAP based corporate to fetch data all the required data for a Vendor/Item/Customer.
Role and Responsibilities :
Responsible for handling Offshore team of size 8, coordinating between Clients and Offshore to meet client’s requirements
Go through the entire SLDC life cycle and make sure the project is delivered within the deadline and support the application whenever needed
Maintain and resolve production tickets through BMC Remedy tool.
Served as primary point of contact on a 24-hour, 7-days-a-week basis for Network Operations, Customer Service Operations, Production Control, Computer Operations, and MASKED_NAME.
Coordinated timely disaster recovery procedures affecting the stability of data center operations.
Interfaced daily with client users worldwide to address a range of technical issues and concerns.
Developed and revised departmental procedure manuals to assist staffs in technical operations.
Implemented Quality Control procedures to ensure full compliance with Service Level Agreements.
Title: Project Manager/Team Lead
Client: Walmart
Duration:  From 19 SEP 2011 TILL 30 Nov 2012
Description:The scope of this TITAN project is to update all the applications to reflect the current operational alignment of the client’s equipped store. As part of this project new database & new set of tables for holding the new operational alignment will be created. All the impacted screens/programs will be referring to the new database. All the reports which is at Market level will be converted into Region level. New Market level Reports will be created if required by business
      Also the scope includes making the alignment structure flexible for any future operational alignment changes and all these make it Clean & Accurate data in all reports & screens.
Role and Responsibilities :
Responsible for handling Offshore team of size 8, coordinating between Onsite/Offshore and deliverables from Offshore 
Go through the entire SLDC life cycle and make sure the project is delivered within the deadline and support the application whenever needed
Maintain and resolve production tickets through BMC Remedy tool.
Company: Cognizant Technology Solutions			Period: 9 Feb 2004 to 30 Oct 2010
Projects
Title: Developer/ Senior Develope
Client: The Bank of Newyork Mellon 
Duration:  From 9 Feb 2004 to 30 Oct 2010
Description: Worked for a merger project where two banks mergedalong with their Global Shares. At present in one bank, global shares processing was done for two clients. In addition to these two, a new client needed to be processed for which fractional shares needs to be handled. All are German based clients but processed from MASKED_LOCATION.
Role and Responsibilities :
Started at offshore as a team lead and went onsite for the new region creation
Got KT from clients (Onsite) and established the team at offshore single handedly for the application.
Interacting directly with the clients from offshore. Involved in all phases if SDLC process.
Coordinated with multiple vendors from geographically distributed teams for successful implementation of servers.
MASKED_NAME in Computer Science in 2003 from Madras University, Chennai, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_LOCATION.