Professional Summary                                          
MASKED_NAME
Profile: Project Manager /Agile Scrum Master/QA Leader
An Experienced and Certified IT Professional with extensive 18+ years of experience in Product/Project Management, Agile Scrum Master ,QA Test Management , Defect Management, Release Management, People Management , Outsource management and Client Management in Multi-Million Dollar Software Development Applications for Industries as Banking Financial Insurance Mortgage, Health Care & Life Science Management, Security, ERP,Airline, Logistics Telecom , Supply chain Management, Manufacturing, Automobiles, Manufacturing and Retail/E- Commerce.
Education and Credentials
Master’s in Computer Application – First Class 
Project Management Certification - Kent State University (PMP) 
Certified Scrum Master from MASKED_LOCATION – CSM
Certified Product Owner -CSPO
Key IT Projects/Solutions Delivered for Global Fortune Customers – MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_LOCATION.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Project Experience Highlights: 
MINDTREE Limited –       Project -Test Manager/Scrum Master
Feb 2016-Present (USA)
MASKED_NAME 	:  Fortune listed BFSI client – MASKED_LOCATION
Description 	:  Life, RPS and Annuity Insurance applications (IOS, Android, Web Platform)
Responsible for Creation of the Project plan and Test plan
Responsible for People Management; Responsible Scheduling, Tracking and Reporting; 
Responsible for Resource allocation (people, hardware, software, and facilities); 
Responsible for Metric Preparation and Reporting; 
Responsible for Managing, supervising, and assessing team performance 
Responsible for Defining project scope, goals and 
MASKED_NAME that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders; 
Responsible for Liaising with project stakeholders on an ongoing basis & ensuring Customer Satisfaction; 
Responsible for reports publishing with upward management 
Agile Project Track: Helping team regarding MASKED_NAME of user stories and Estimation (JIRA, Scrumwise, Confluence).
Use Product Backlog and come up with a release plan & Sprint plan during Sprint 0.
Sprint Planning and MASKED_NAME decision using pocker card with the agile team.
Daily Scrum call/Stand-ups with the Agile team to identify any blocker/impediment.
MASKED_NAME/issues immediately collaborating with required interface team/stakeholders.
Continuous Integration and Delivery: DevOPS, Automation testing. Daily status updates.
Sprint Review at the last day of the sprint with the MASKED_LOCATION to demo the shipped product.
Conduct Sprint Retrospective post the completion of the sprint. Come up with action items.
Effectively use of Collaborative tools and JIRA/Confluence tool for Agile process, time tracking, metrics.
Mphasis Limited- An HP Company: Agile Scrum Master|Project Manager| QA-Test Manager.                  
March 2010-Feb 2016 (MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_NAME)     
Project Name	:  Sigma BI for AIG
Technology		:  IOS and MASKED_NAME, Business analytics-IBM Data Stage, DB2, Informatica,
                                               MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, IOS and Android app.
Project Name 	:  American Airlines SABRE- Trip case; 
Role			:  Project Manager /Scrum Master
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment: Software Development Track
Sprint Release planning, MASKED_NAME meeting, Problem solutions, Sprint Demo and Retrospective 
Facilitating Scrum of Scrum for offshore Scrum teams in MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_LOCATION 
Managing the overall performance and delivery of cross-functional 
Facilitating sprint planning as Scrum master for multiple Scrum teams 
Publicizing the team's progress and successes to make sure they are highly visible 
To product owner’s/ stakeholders. Ensuring the team together till the release completion
Ensuring the transition of Projects from Waterfall to Agile
Maintenance Projects/Testing Projects Track
Responsible for Creation of Project plan and the Test plan
Responsible for People Management; Responsible Scheduling, Tracking and Reporting
Responsible for Resource allocation (people, hardware, software, and facilities)
Responsible for Metric Preparation and Reporting; 
Responsible for Managing, supervising, and assessing team performance 
Responsible for Defining project scope, goals and MASKED_NAME that support business goals in collaboration with senior management and stakeholders
Responsible for Liaising with project stakeholders on an ongoing basis & ensuring Customer Satisfaction 
Responsible for automation using Ranorex version 5.0
Responsible for Set up and manage project expectations with team members and other stakeholders
Hiring and retaining talent into the organization and projects; 
Responsible for Coaching, mentor, motivate and supervise Project team members and influence them to take positive action and accountability for their assigned work
Develop and deliver progress reports, proposals, requirements documentation and presentations
Responsible for proactively managing changes in project scope 
MASKED_NAME potential crises and devise contingency plans
Responsible for Defining project success criteria and disseminate them to involved parties throughout Project life cycle and Delivery
Project Name		: MASKED_NAME for Charles Schwab Corporation
Technology	               : Microsoft team foundation server; Microsoft Integration services, Microsoft     reporting services; Actuate Reporting system, MASKED_NAME.
Role			: Test Manager/Leader
Description		: Schwab Retirement planning application
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment
Reaching agreement with client about the assignment and expectations
Ensuring test infrastructure is available on time
Keeping the issue administration continually updated
Responsible for end to end delivery from offshore team.
Responsible for planning, execution and reporting of test
Conducted Security testing & Performance testing.
Project Name		: CAFÉ – Customer Automation for Future Endeavour for FedEx
Technology		: HP ALM, Business process testing, quick Test Pro 
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment
Responsible for the team of 30 testing resources
Responsible End to end testing delivery to the customer 
Responsible for the team appraisals
Responsible for defect analysis and management 
Responsible for the process management
Responsible for the customer management
Responsible for both offshore delivery teams in MASKED_NAME and Mangalore
Marlabs Software (P) Ltd - Project Leader /Release Manager                                                                                 (Aug 2008 – March 2010)  
Project Name	: In-Flight Exchange (IFX4) ™ Product suite = Supply chain management 
                                              for Air line services for gate gourmet Customers
Technology		: SAP R/34.MASKED_ADDRESS Acceleration and Optimization, Quality center, Loadrunner
Client			: Gate Gourmet Inc. MASKED_LOCATION
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:
Responsible for application test management for multiple projects
Managed team of 18-MASKED_ADDRESS team using MASKED_NAME
Reported QA team status to executives
Managed defects using MASKED_NAME for testing during testing QA, UAT and Production environment.
Standardize QA standards and practices for the project teams
Coordinated for tool evaluation and POC (Proof of Concept)
Collection of Metrics and Reporting to the Management.
Working closely with Business development team to articulate Business value through 
Testing solutions and help them to close new accounts (Proposals and SOW’s)
Tratum Technologies Pvt. Ltd - QC lead
(Dec 2007 –  Jul 2008)
Project Name		: Prepaid and Post-Paid Billing Systems for British Telecom 
Client			: British MASKED_LOCATION - MASKED_LOCATION
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:
Day to day test management, reporting and defect management 
Prepared status reports for management and drafted Test Completion Report.
Member of SEPG
Ensuring a test infrastructure is available on time.
Allowing use of all agreed test methodologies
Support in the Test project proposal creation, MASKED_NAME and roadmap for transition
Coordination and participation in the client application portfolio assessment & estimation
Managed, planned and allocated test resources for projects.                                                                                                                                      
Mphasis – An EDS Company - Test Lead
(Jan 2006 –  Jul 2007)
Project		: CRM package
Client		: MASKED_NAME financial corporation          
Duration	: 01/2006 - 12/2006
Project		: Auto-write off
Client		: Xerox Corporation                         		      
Duration	: 01/2007 - 07/2007     
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:
Process Improvement
Prepared requirement clarification tracker to manage requirements.
Authored gap analysis tracker to manage gap between wire frames
        And functional specifications.
Authored release management process for testing team.
Wrote and maintained Master test plan, Estimations, risks, issues, templates, Review Reports and Test Reports.
Ensuring adherence to software quality process
Test Management 
Test planning, scheduling and monitoring
Test estimation using industry standard estimation models.
Resource recruitment and management
MASKED_LOCATION point of contact for testing teams both at MASKED_NAME and Chennai.
The team establishes testing processes, testing standards, test case designs, defects, and reviews, test reports.
Migrated several applications from onsite to offshore.
Managed all types of testing such as Functional, System, Reliability, Performance,
Load, Usability, Security, Compatibility, Acceptance, Regression using Manual and
Automation Techniques
Responsible for Defect Tracking and Defect Management.
Client Management
Regular communication with customers
Relationship management.
Reporting the QA status to onsite executives on regular basis
Providing solutions 
Publish software test deliverables identified during each control point of SDLC, including Test plan, Test cases, Defect and Test reports.
Support in Test project proposal creation and roadmap for transition
People Management
Control and Monitor the team by giving specified inputs
Encourage team members to attend training program at least once in MASKED_LOCATION management white papers
Submitted QA handbook to organization
Member of Testing Competency Interviewer’s panel.
Authored testing process for onsite-offshore delivery model.
Commerce Velocity (India) Pvt. Ltd - Test Lead
(Aug 2005 – Jan 2006)
Project	Name		: Credit Quality Decision Suite this is an integrated solution for Mortgage banking
Client			: Mylor financial services, Funding America Wilmington financial services, Bear Stearns, Green light, NRT, Zero Down Mortgage, AHL, FNLC, VERITAS, Option One.
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:
Managing Multiple leading clients such as Mylor financial services, MASKED_LOCATION
Wilmington financial services, Bear Stearns, Green light, NRT, Zero Down Mortgage, AHL, FNLC, VERITAS, Option One.
Leading a team of 10 resources.
Managed creation of process for testing
People management and test management, resource allocation & planning.
Value add: Test repository creation and management
Values add: Provide training guidance and growth opportunities for growing staff.
Values add: improved communication between QA and MASKED_NAME team.
Author Release Notes for each deployment of software.
Provide test results to be used by management as criteria for migration into Production environment(s).
Test planning and tracking and monitoring.
Co-coordinating with onsite/client
Handles all critical issues and reviews with QA Analyst
IBM GLOBAL SERVICES PVT. LTD - Test lead
(Jul 2004 – Aug 2005)         
MASKED_NAME			: PBM – Pharmaceutical Benefit Management system for Merck fortune pharmaceutical company
Client				: Merck & Co., Inc
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment: 
Leading team of 9-MASKED_ADDRESS engineers.
Report QA team status to Onsite Executives 
Responsible for Test data creation
Responsible for multiple applications on MASKED_NAME and Web.
Development of testing strategy and work assignments among team members.
Designing of test plans, test cases, reports and its maintenance using Test 
        Management Tool (MASKED_NAME tool)
Designing of various templates according to customer specifications
Responsible for Performance appraisal to team members
Training the testing team before putting them on production on testing methodologies.
Hiring resources. – Member of the project recruitment team for testing resources.     
Interviewing and scheduling the client interview and member of IBM testing 
       Competency Interviewer’s panel.
Mentored team members in use of Merant PVCS tracker for Defect tracking 
Develop documentation in PPS and Excel to track deliverables
Interviewed all QA resources and recommended to Dept. Manager and testing
        Competency R.D.M on hiring.
Defect tracking and MASKED_NAME found for developers using Merant PVCS Tracker  
Signing off the Quality Gates (Delivery to the customer)
Microcon International Ltd – Senior Test Engineer                                                      
(Feb 2002 - Jun 2004)                                                                      
Project Name		: HMS version 1.0
Hospital Management system; 
Client			: Parkway Group
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:   
Supervise 4-MASKED_ADDRESS Plan, Test cases execution reports, Defect reports
Mentored team members in use of Multi-site Rational Clear Quest for Defect Tracking.
Monitor schedules
Lead the Quality Review Process Group within the Team
Knowledge Transfer to new hired employees to assume QA roles.
MASKED_LOCATION project statistics, such as defect rate and severity, milestones met.
Implement Automated Testing Methodology and best practices for QA Team
        Using Rational Testing suites.
Developed Modularized Rational Robot automated test scripts for Web and
Client/Server Applications
Aid in design and implementation of Load Testing using Rational Load test.
Utilize Clear Quest for Manual and Automated defect tracking, and MASKED_NAME.
Ensure defects of unit testing and integration testing been closed before
        Carrying out system testing.         
ADS Technologies Pvt. Ltd – Test Engineer	                          
(Sep 98 – Dec 2001)                       
Product		: IBS Versions 1.2 and 1.2
Technology		: Integrated Business solution – End to end ERP solutions for Retail Industries.      
Roles and Responsibilities Accomplishment:   
Manual testing. Prepared test cases and test data generation
System testing and functional testing, Usability testing. 
MASKED_NAME found in the Application were entered in MASKED_NAME.
Filing of System test error logs and defining error priorities in test error reports.
Executed, analyzed and evaluated test results, conducted validation and verification of 
Software