MITALI  BARMAN
MASKED_LOCATION,MASKED_LOCATION
Contact#: MASKED_PHONE
MASKED_EMAIL
OBJECTIVE
Seeking challenging career in areas of Banking,Health Care,Insurance and Service sector organization to use my skills and experience effectively to contribute to the ultimate growth of the organization .
BACKGROUND SUMMARY
Business Analyst with 7 years of financial, banking expertise in Business Analysis,GAP Analysis and developing/creating business process documents.
In depth strong working knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Planning, Analysis/Design, Development, and Testing for the software/system development process 
Strong experience in preparing Business Requirements Document (BRD), Use Case Specifications,User Stories
 Well acquainted with Workflows and UML (Unified Modeling Language) diagrams such as, Use case diagrams, Swimlane diagram and process flow diagram
Worked extensively  on SCRUM Techniques.
Active facilitator of Joint Application Development (JAD),questionnaire techniques sessions for requirements elicitation  and brainstorming ideas.
Multi-Tasking and Organizational Aptitudes with proven experience in Development and Implementation of Strategies.
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, capable of communicating with highly technical engineering teams. Exceptional mediator between external and internal customers, capable of interpreting their needs and positions to ensure the success of the projects.
Experienced in vendor management, training users / peers, building consensus
In depth experience of  Test Documents preparation and Smoke Testing,Sanity Testing,Regression testing,Retesting and UAT testing.
Attended training on Heath care domain and prepared some projects on implementation of new health care reform act like updating from MASKED_LOCATION to ICD10 as well as supporting existing project like EDI transaction queries.Good understanding of Claim adjudication system,EDI file transaction . 
SKILL SET
WORK EXPERIENCE
Client : JerseySTEM(Non Profit Organization)                                November 2017 Till date
Role: Product Owner/Business Analyst(Volunteer)
Project Description:  MASKED_NAME is a network of parents, professionals, students and educators whose goal is to promote excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (“STEM”) education. They are dedicated to partnering with local schools and other organizations to create and enhance STEM-oriented educational opportunities as part of students' paths towards college and career readiness, and to develop effective STEM programs and initiatives that engage students and educators. MASKED_NAME is also committed to bridging the gender gap in STEM education and sharing STEM-related opportunities with underprivileged students and communities.Our Project scope is to implement Volunteers for Salesforce to manage and maintain the Volunteers and their contribution towards MASKED_NAME and integrate it with MASKED_NAME website.Next phase will involve in creating a Community within Salesforce to enable the Volunteers to Create their account with MASKED_NAME through Community and use the MASKED_NAME facility to discuss any technical issue and get benefited from there.
Responsibilities: 
Conduct various conference call with Business user to understand the current state of the process and their business Need.
Elicitation of requirements by using interviews, observation, Joint Application Development(JAD) Session, brainstorming sessions, and documents analysis.
Prepared high level requirements and got that validated from Business user.
Preparation and grooming of  Product backlog  and writen detailed,short,simple,testable and decomposed requirements in the form of User Stories .
Prepared mock up sample screens using Wireframing tool Lucid Chart and give our business user a walkthrough of the look and feel,navigation and layout of the screen
Facilitated Scrum planning meetings to Coordinate between End user,MASKED_NAME,Developer and QA Teams and resolved any confusion/ambiguity development team had about requirements specification.
Analyze and prepared data modeling to import the data from MASKED_NAME database (They use google sheet)to Salesforce.
Clean up of data,mapping the data to Salesforce data set and migration of data using data import Wizard and Data Loader.
MASKED_NAME to end user at the end of each Sprint.
Facilitated and Participated in Sprint Review and Sprint Retrospective Meeting
Prepared Standard Operation Procedure of the existing process I.e of the current procedure so that that can be analyzed and understood to prepare the to be state of the project.
Client: UBS,MASKED_LOCATION		             	                                       March 2013 - April 2015
Role:	Business Analyst
Employer:Cognizant Technology Solutions
Project Description:Worked for Banking Product Services team on automation of a trade reconciliation tool that  performs all the reconciliation functions of the loan trades. Primary responsibility was to develop functional specification documents for the banking product services Loan closer team by gathering ,analyzing and documenting requirements from various business users associated to the system as well as by analyzing external factors .Acts as Interface/Bridge between Banking Product Service Team and Technical Team.
Responsibilities: 
Conducted interviews with key business users to collect requirement and business process information regarding the trade confirmation system.
Elicitation of requirements by using interviews, observation, Joint Application Development(JAD) Session, brainstorming sessions, and documents analysis.
Preparation ,analysis and updating Product backlog and user stories on the basis of discussion with client stakeholders and SMEs.
Facilitated Scrum planning meetings to Coordinate between clients,product owner,Developer and QA Teams and resolved any confusion/ambiguity development team had about requirements specification.
Analysis of Client requirements, generating workflow process and necessary documents for the project.
Shadow and assist some of the product owner activities by providing high level estimates,prioritising stories for the sprint,maintaining backlog and release plans.
Performed extensive requirement analysis including gap analysis.
Worked as a liaison between technology and the business clients to improve business processes and support critical business strategies.
Determined user/business/functional requirements. Created UML diagrams including Use Case diagrams, Activity Diagrams using MS MASKED_NAME .
Developed non-functional requirements and documented them as Business Rules, Quality attributes, constraints documents. 
Functioned as the primary liaison between the business line, operations, and the technical areas throughout the project cycle 
Facilitate Scrum planning meeting,MASKED_NAME review meeting and MASKED_NAME meeting for the scrum Team 
Worked with QA team to design test plan and test cases for User Acceptance Testing (UAT) and Back End Testing.
Used SQL query extensively to facilitate adhoc query from manager.
Used HP Quality Center to track defect management life cycle
UBS Investment Bank                                                  January 2012 – March MASKED_ADDRESS	
Employer : Cognizant Technology Solutions
Senior Business Analyst for Banking and Financial Services of UBS. The project dealt with designing and developing a technologically advanced platform incorporating software, information and communications systems designed to address the business needs of storing all the email communications  between UBS side(Including front office,middle office and operation team) and counterpart`s side for all the credit derivative trades so that any information is not lost and any data/email can be retrieved  in case of any discrepancies in future.It included the development of an Internal web Portal and a database which allowed the user/banker/financial analyst to route the information and emails pertaining to a particular trade to the web portal and retrieve the same in case of any disagreement later on.
Responsibilities:
Developed business requirements document (BRD) based on Joint Application Development(JAD) sessions,stakeholder & SMEs interviews and validated those requirements with them to make sure that business needs are clearly understood and correctly documented.
Directly interacted with clients to elicit the requirements and translate them into terms the development team can comprehend
MASKED_NAME-up  screens for the client to visualize the end product and suggest required enhancements. 
Facilitate several meeting with technical team to give them walkthrough of the requirements and the system specification
Handled any issues/queries technical team pointed out.
Identified and resolved issues between business requirements and technical constraints.
Served as liaison to business throughout the software development life cycle
Asssisted Quality Assurance team to prepare the test case artifacts on the basis of approved BRD and addressed any quiries they had in terms of requirement specifications.
Prepare some Test Cases and test Script to facilitate the UAT and Manual testing
Used JIRA extensively to handle  defect management life cycle.
Provided support for few months after deployment of the project.
UBS                                                                                               September 2010 – January MASKED_ADDRESS	
Employer : Cognizant Technology Solutions
Worked with UBS to provide an enhancement of an existing Internal Legacy tool that captured the credit trades that did not flow from the Internal booking system to electronic confirmation system .The enhancement project mainly focused on updating the tool on daily basis and generating a report end of the day from the tool along with the error message(reason as to why the trade did not flow) .This report was utilized by the Operation team(sometimes trader) to further investigate.
Responsibilities:
Facilitate client interviews and workshops to gather ,understand and set MASKED_LOCATION project goals,objectives,complex business needs and potential opportunities.
Perform GAP Analysis of the existing functionality of the tool and highlighted the functional discrepancies and relevant solutions were suggested and implemented.
Timely delivery of the scope documents,Functional requirement specification,process workflows,Use Cases and Defect Trackers
Prepare Test Cases and test Script to facilitate the UAT and Manual testing
Developed Mock-up  screens for the client to visualize the end product and suggest required enhancements.
Credit Suisse                                                                                 September 2008 – September MASKED_ADDRESS	
Employer : Eclerx Services Limited
Worked with Eclerx under the prestigious flagship project of Credit Suisse. The prime profile was reflective of knowledge and implementation of core derivative knowledge. The product handled was credit derivative swap (CDS).The areas of expertise is understanding CDS product,studing implication of the trade, resolving key and vital breaks, co-ordination with counterparties and internal system and finally effective resolution of non agreeing parameters within a benchmark time frame.
Responsibilities:
Assisting team in their responsibility of confirming CDS trades and working on trades .
Escalating and contacting counterparties to get the trades confirmed
Escalating discrepancies to Front office and middle office following up till the issue is resolved
Training team members and auditing all the mails of the team members & rectifying errors
Preparing daily reports and sending it to senior management and stake holders.
Liaising with Technical team to improve the internal tools to meet MASKED_LOCATION requirement
Performing GAP analysis and highlighted the need of various macros to reduce human error and improve task completion duration.
Training New Joinees on different derivative products
Provide Monthly report to management on our (bank`s) performance(good/bad) with different clients so that relationship manager can discuss issues with client ,come to a best solution to make sure that our confirmation target and business with client gets increased  in future.
Facilitate meeting with new joinees to keep the track of their training.
Educational Qualification :
Post Graduate Certification in International Business Practice
Post Graduate Certification in International Business Practice,MASKED_LOCATION ,MASKED_LOCATION validated and awarded by St. Mary`s University College,MASKED_LOCATION,MASKED_LOCATION
Diploma in management 
Post Graduate programme in Finance from Indira School of Career studies , MASKED_LOCATION .
B. Sc (Hons) Statistics – Guwahati University,MASKED_LOCATION