 
 
Contact
www.linkedin.com/in/
ruchikachhabra25 (LinkedIn)
github.com/Ruchi2507 (Other)
MASKED_NAME
C++
C
Python
Languages
Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
English (Professional Working)
Certifications
Core Java
PHP Training
Ruchika Chhabra
Machine Learning Engineer | Python, C/C++ Software Engineer
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Summary
• Data Scientist with 6+ years of experience modelling complex
problems, discovering insights and 
identifying opportunities through the use of statistical, algorithmic,
mining and visualization techniques. 
• Hands on experience in Text Analytics (NLP/NLU) and Image
Processing along with experience of 
working at client fidelity (MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_LOCATION). 
• Experienced at creating ETL Data Pipelines, MASKED_NAME and
Neural Network models, using 
Descriptive (Data mining), Predictive (Statistical Modelling), and
Prescriptive (Optimization Algorithm) 
Analytics. 
Experience
Cadence Design Systems
Lead Software Engineer
August 2017 - Present (2 years 8 months)
MASKED_LOCATION
• Analyze and evaluate requirements coming from marketing team and
customers to prepare 
functional specification document.
• Design and build ETL (extract, transform, load) processes to ingest, clean,
and process the 
structured and un-structured data, coming from multiple sources, to draw
meaningful insights 
from large datasets.
• Design, develop and deliver advanced analytics projects using Machine
Learning and Deep 
Learning methodologies.
• Perform end-to-end Machine Learning which involves data extraction, data
cleaning, data analysis, 
 
Page 1 of 2

 
 
ML model development and then communicating analysis, insights and
findings with relevant 
stakeholders using Data Visualization tools.
• Develop and maintain CI/CD pipeline using MASKED_NAME.
• Collaborate with a diverse range of stakeholders to optimize delivery of
product from both quality 
and speed-to-market perspective. 
NEC Technologies India Pvt. Ltd
Senior Member Technical Staff
July 2013 - August 2017 (4 years 2 months)
Noida Area, MASKED_LOCATION
• Involved in requirements gathering, solution designing, developing prototypes
and POCs.
• Developed highly efficient machine learning algorithms in MASKED_NAME through
both pair-programming and independent work. 
• Created and maintained data pipelines to power machine learning models
and dashboards.
• Fine-tuned Machine Learning models to improve accuracy. 
• Ensured that all the performance and quality guidelines are met before the
product or solution is shipped to the customers.
Education
U.I.E.T. K.U.K
Bachelor's Degree, Computer Science · (2009 - 2013)
D.A.V. Public School, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
High School, Computer Software Engineering · (1998 - 2009)
 
Page 2 of 2
