 
 
Contact
www.linkedin.com/in/nitika-kamboj
(LinkedIn)
MASKED_NAME
C
Programming
C++
Languages
Hindi (Full Professional)
English (Full Professional)
Nitika Kamboj
Machine Learning Engineer at Scanta
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Summary
I am a data science enthusiast who is passionate about adding
value to a business through data engineering, statistical modeling,
and making artificially intelligent systems. I look for data science
applications that have a positive impact. I also enjoy being involved
in business strategy discussions and working with people from all
types of backgrounds.
I started my career as a Machine Learning Intern at a fin-tech
startup. My primary work there included statistical analysis, feature
engineering and automating credit score using machine learning
techniques. I learned how to discover hidden information from a vast
amount of data to deliver a better business product to derive insights
that help to serve customers better. Currently, I am working as an
NLP Engineer at a startup named MASKED_LOCATION. My responsibilities include
transforming natural language data into useful features, develop NLP
systems according to requirements, train the developed models and
performing evaluation experiments.
At the end of the day, I aspire to be the happiest, the most
successful and the best version of myself.
Experience
Scanta
Machine Learning Engineer 
September 2019 - Present (7 months)
MASKED_NAME, MASKED_LOCATION
• Serving as a machine learning engineer to perform NLP pre-processing
tasks, building and deploymemt of models.
MASKED_NAME on data cleaning, text pre-processing, creating word embeddings
from data and building text classifiers.
• Utilize Git, Python, and AWS for cloud computations.
 
Page 1 of 2

 
 
RedCarpetUp.com
Data Science Intern
April 2019 - August 2019 (5 months)
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
• Worked as a data science intern to implement a solution that classifies if a
loan buyer will do a fraud.
• Used SQL to fetch data from live data stream, performed data cleaning and
feature engineering to build
relevant features to be used to build statistical model.
MASKED_NAME on classifiers like MASKED_LOCATION and ensemble learning using
scikit-learn and python.
• Deployed the model using docker on AWS.
Education
Maharaja Surajmal Institute Of Technology
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), MASKED_NAME and
Engineering · (2015 - 2019)
Central Board of Secondary Education
Higher Secondary School, Mathematics And Science · (2013 - 2014)
 
Page 2 of 2
