 
 
Contact
www.linkedin.com/in/mrdbourke
(LinkedIn)
www.mrdbourke.com (Personal)
MASKED_NAME (Elementary)
Mandarin (Elementary)
Certifications
Introduction to Data Science with
Python
Improving Deep Neural Networks:
Hyperparameter tuning,
Regularization and Optimization
Duolingo Spanish Fluency: Beginner
(Estimated)
The Complete Web Developer
Course
Convolutional Neural Networks
Publications
How I Stop Feeling Depressed
MASKED_NAME
I just launched a new beginner-friendly machine learning course
(dbourke.link/mlcourse), message for more
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Summary
I make YouTube videos and write about the crossroads of
technology, health, science, philosophy and life. 
People first, technology second.
Heavily skewed optimist.
Curious about everything.
I love getting hands on with a technical problem. But nothing excites
me more than communicating it’s benefits to others. From getting
involved with the nut and bolts of a deep learning network to pitching
a 48-hour hacked-together MVP at a MASKED_LOCATION. 
I have no troubles getting up and talking to people about any topic
I’m interested in. If it excites me, you’ll find me talking (or writing)
about it.
I grew up as an overweight teenager. I had a strict schedule. School
8:00am-3:00m, MASKED_NAME. This kind of dedication led
to my Xbox team being number 1 in MASKED_LOCATION for Modern Warfare 2.
We slayed it.
After high school, I got fit. I sold my Xbox and built a pull-up bar in
my backyard. 
I failed my first two years at university due to having a lack of
meaning (and laziness). 
When I combined my interest of health and fitness with what I was
studying, my results left the stratosphere. 
This is the only way I work now. I use my interests as rocket fuel. 
 
Page 1 of 5

 
 
I plan to merge my love for health and technology. I’m going to utilize
the power of artificial intelligence to help people move more and eat
better. 
Where's the proof?
Whether it was maintaining an NPS of 88 as an Apple Genius or
creating YouTube videos with thousands of views, I love using my
knowledge to help others. 
My writing has had over 6 million views online.
Communicating ideas to others is my strength. 
Want to know more?
For updates on work, you can subscribe on my website:
www.mrdbourke.com. 
If you’d like to ask me anything at all, send me a message,
otherwise, my email is MASKED_EMAIL.
Experience
mrdbourke Studios
Founder
March 2017 - Present (3 years 1 month)
Brisbane
Creating YouTube videos and writing articles at the crossover of technology,
health and art.
MASKED_NAME
Machine Learning Engineer
April 2018 - June 2019 (1 year 3 months)
MASKED_NAME machines start to understand the world before letting them gather their
own insights. Kind of teaching your child to ride a bike without training wheels
for the first time. They grow up so fast.
 
Page 2 of 5

 
 
With the help of my colleagues, a little TensorFlow, a bit of MASKED_LOCATION, plenty of
Python and some GPU computing power we build models to help make sense
of the world.
Projects include: 
- Deriving insights from completed law cases using language embeddings 
- Constructing structured information out of unstructured text
- Predicting whether a future purchase should occur or not based on historical
data
- Using previous purchases to recommend products to returning customers
- Replicating state of the art neural network architectures from scientific papers
I also write about what we work on. Links to samples below.
Code Camp
Teaching Assistant
January 2018 - September 2018 (9 months)
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Helping young students learning to code.
Teaching classes of 12 students or more. 
Utilising block coding and line coding to help students create their own mobile-
device-based games.
Uber
Driver
July 2017 - April 2018 (10 months)
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
Moving people. And driving them from A to B of course.
352 5-star trips with an average of 4.93/5.00 star rating.
My top three favourite rider comments.
"Really made my morning trip to uni less horrible."
"10/10 dude."
 
Page 3 of 5

 
 
"One of the best drivers I've ever had! Great conversation and would book
again if I had the choice :)"
Meeting different people every 10-minutes has opened my eyes to diverse
world we live in.
Driving Uber has made me comfortable meeting and talking to anyone about
anything.
MoveMore
Founder
March 2017 - March 2018 (1 year 1 month)
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION
MoveMore is an MASKED_LOCATION-powered ChatBot designed to help educate and encourage
people to be more active.
It is capable of providing workout routines and exercise guides across a vast
range of goals and movements. 
Apple
3 years 5 months
Genius
June 2015 - February 2017 (1 year 9 months)
Vast understanding of macOS, iOS and their respective services.
Offering the worlds best customer support to the worlds best products. 
Troubleshooting issues and creating solutions relating to anything Apple. 
Educating team members on products whilst independently expanding my own
technical know-how. 
Delivering over 30 one on one technical reservations on a daily basis. 
Service Specialist
October 2013 - June 2015 (1 year 9 months)
Providing customers with the best experience possible by sharing knowledge
and skills. 
 
Page 4 of 5

 
 
Setting the foundations for the relationships of customers with the Apple
brand. 
Delivered over 3000 technical support sessions with a 5 minute reservation
average and customer approval rating of 88%. 
Decibels Entertainment
DJ and Professional Entertainer
August 2013 - February 2014 (7 months)
Getting people to dance is one thing, keeping them dancing all night was
another. 
Entertaining and directing crowds of 10-200 people. 
Setting up intricate entertainment hardware in multiple different locations. 
Queensland Building and Construction Commission
Records Officer
August 2011 - September 2012 (1 year 2 months)
Data and records storage specialist.
Vast understanding MS Office products. 
Education
Udacity
Nanodegree, MASKED_NAME · (2017 - 2018)
Coursera
Specialisation, MASKED_NAME · (2017 - 2018)
Udacity
Nanodegree, MASKED_NAME · (2017 - 2017)
Stanford University
Machine Learning, MASKED_NAME · (2017 - 2017)
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Certificate in New Ventures Leadership, MIT Global Entrepreneurship
Bootcamp · (2017 - 2017)
 
Page 5 of 5
