SUMMARY:
17 years of IT experience currently working as Group Project Manager, Engineering/R&D with HARMAN Connected Services (a Samsung Company)  
Agile/Scrum/PMP 
Certified PMP, MASKED_NAME and Trained Lead SaFE Agilist (4.0) with proven competence in building, training MASKED_NAME teams and facilitating Scrum Masters 
Extensive experience in Sprint planning and estimation, tools like Poker Estimation, KANBAN 
Hands on experience in Change management and accommodate new business requirements by prioritizing and performing impact analysis 
Involved in driving the team to achieve high velocity and burn down rates  Conducted RTE activities across product lines 
Currently undergoing Nanodegree certification on Data Science using Python 
Technical Skills: Software Development/Management 
Domain  
Expertise in business domains including Retail, Finance, Legal, ALM and B2C, catering to building grounds up applications to their maintenance. 
Acted as proxy product owner in the geo absence of Product Management team. 
Project Management/People Management 
Skilful in Conflict Resolution, Risk Identification and Mitigation and Performance Management & People Management 
Highly capable in multi-tasking and managing multiple projects for processing requirements from conceptualization to final delivery. 
Solid understanding of SDLC from Requirements Analysis to Post Implementation 
Extensive expertise in project planning, schedules, resources, cost & overall project management plan. 
High degree of collaborations & effective communication among stakeholders. 
Good knowledge handling releases and deployment via CI / CD. 
Conduct Scrum ceremonies; daily stand up, backlog grooming, Iteration planning, Iteration close & Retrospection. Facilitated code reviews, created best practices knowledge base, and created Lessons learnt knowledge base at the end of each sprint & project 
Manage project budget, time lines, quality and P&L parameters 
EDUCATION: Bachelor of Engineering (Electronics & Communication) 1998, .Karnataka University   MASKED_LOCATION 
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND CERTIFICATIONS: 
Lead SAFe Agilist ~ PMP ~ Scrum professional ~Java Sun certification (2000) ~ TQMI Internal Auditor IS0 9001:2000 ~ Soft skills development 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
Client: NCR Corporation, MASKED_LOCATION USA                                                                        May, 2017 to till Date
Role: Group Project Manager/Agile Program Manager
Project Description: 
 It’s a leading transaction based Hardware and software company
Responsibilities: 
As a Group project manager, I was responsible for delivery of the above requirements which was 25 people engagement and was spread across 4 different locations (MASKED_NAME, OMAHA(USA), Atlanta(USA), Plano(USA)) 
Responsible for acting as Scrum of Scrum conducting daily meetings to review the progress made by scrum teams and helping to resolve their impediments. 
Involve in techno/Functional discussions and coordinate with customer to provide right solutions and clarifications; 
Coordinate and manage CICD deployment & releases and dependency within different teams. 
Estimate work efforts for project sizing, and efficient work flow with risk free technical approaches. 
Guided & Coached teams with Agile / Scrum Processes, managed & groomed backlog.  
Administering the MASKED_NAME board and presenting it to customer on alternate day basis. 
Managing project health through Process excellence team for providing better quality deliverables conducting code reviews, documents reviews and demos, Managing project budget, time lines, quality and P& L Parameters. 
Environment:  MDM, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, SQL Server, DB2, HTML, JavaScript, Tomcat/Apache, WMS, .NET Framework 4.6, ASP.NET web forms. MSMQ, SQL Server 2008 R2, Pricing, MASKED_NAME, SQL Server
Client: CitiXsys Inc, MASKED_LOCATION                                                                         November, 2015 to May, 2017
Role: Group Project Manager/Lead Agile Program Manager
Project Description: 
Modernizing CitiXsys core suite is highly essential due to change in technologies and use cases in retail. Modernization program objective is to have complete suite re-engineering on technology agnostic, seamless and ease of deployment, maintenance, secure and highly scalable. 
Responsibilities:
As a Group project manager, I was responsible for delivery of the above requirements which was 55 people engagement and was spread across 4 different locations (MASKED_NAME, Coimbatore, MASKED_LOCATION and MASKED_LOCATION) 
Conducting meetings with customer on Technical Requirements initially, document and sign off. 
Responsible for acting as Scrum of Scrum conducting daily meetings to review the progress made by 4 scrum teams and helping to resolve their impediments. 
Involved in driving the team to achieve higher velocity & huge burn down rates in small two week Iterations. 
Coordinate and manage CICD deployment & releases and dependency within different teams. 
Estimate work efforts for project sizing, and efficient work flow with risk free technical approaches. 
Guided & Coached teams with Agile / Scrum Processes, managed & groomed backlog.
Administrating the JIRA board and presenting it to the customer on alternate basis.
Conducting monthly and quarterly business reviews with customer with agile project metrics and dashboards. 
Visiting customer counterparts at their location and helping team to provide effective demo and feedback and sign off. 
Managing project health through Process excellence team for providing better quality deliverables conducting code reviews, documents reviews and demos.
Managing project budget, time lines, quality and P& L Parameters
Environment: MVC 5.0, 4.0, ASP.NET 2.0, ASP.NET 3.5, 4.5,  .NET C#, Web Service, Sql Server 2013
Client: Consensus Inc (Subsidiary of Target Corporation), MASKED_LOCATION  July, 2015-November, 2015
Role: Group Project Manager/Senior Delivery Manager
Project Description: 
The Consensus Engineering project is to maintain the existing POA application with feature enhancements. This caters to the in-house need of Target Corporation. Design and develop next generation POA and OOPIS systems. These caters to the Target sales team (in-store) and opens up a new sales channel on MASKED_NAME These applications/products will help Target to on-board customers, maintain their profiles, carrier selection, tariff plans, credit scores, insurance and other workflows of the telecom retail.
Responsibilities: 
As a Group project manager, I was responsible for delivery of the above requirements which was 120 people engagement and was spread across 2 different locations (San Francisco & Bangalore) 
Responsible for acting as Scrum of Scrum conducting daily meetings to review the progress made by 8 scrum teams and helping to resolve their impediments. 
Involved in driving the team to achieve higher velocity & huge burn down rates in small two week Iterations. 
Coordinate and manage CICD deployment & releases and dependency within different teams. 
Estimate work efforts for project sizing, and efficient work flow with risk free technical approaches. 
Guided & Coached teams with Agile / Scrum Processes, managed & groomed backlog.  
Administering the MASKED_NAME board and presenting it to customer on alternate day basis. 
Managing project health through Process excellence team for providing better quality deliverables conducting code reviews, documents reviews and demos
Environment: Development: Linux, PHP 5.x, MySQL 5.x, MASKED_NAME, CSS3, Angular JS, jQuery, AWS cloud Services Third-party Integration Libraries: Verizon, AT&T, Sprint APIs,  Cyber Source auth, MASKED_NAME, AppleCare Insurance, Square Trade Insurance Build/Release and others: GitHub, JIRA, Confluence, Jenkins
Client: Acesse Corporation, MASKED_LOCATION, CA                                                    April, 2014 to June, 2015
Role: Senior Project Manager/Agile Program Manager/Scrum Master
Project Description: 
MASKED_LOCATION has suite of online software products which are mainly used in MASKED_LOCATION for content management, online marketing, Conference meetings and Mobile Chat related products 
Responsibilities:
Set up the entire MASKED_NAME processes, boards, trainings. 
Trained the entire organization on Agile and Scrum. 
Agile Program management for 4 of their scrum teams which were spread across MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION USA, Redwood City USA and Hyderabad. 
Conducted monthly management meetings and helped then with metrics and analysis of all scrum teams with respect to schedule, delivery and quality/ 
Conducted all sprint ceremonies like Sprint Planning, daily stand up, reviews & retrospective meetings for all scrum teams 
Worked as co-product owner for some of their products and helped to build requirements and 
Traceability. Bridged the gap between PO & QA teams. 
Being a single point of contact for their 50 member offshore team, conducted daily review meetings, monthly project progress reviews and coordinated production releases.
Environment: PHP, My SQL, MS SQL, Android and IOS  
Client: Angie’s List, MASKED_LOCATION, IN, USA                                                       Sep, 2012 to March, 2014
Role: Senior Project Manager/Scrum Master
Project Description: 
MASKED_NAME's List is an American home services website. It is an online directory that allows users to read and publish crowd-sourced reviews of local businesses and contractors. Formerly a subscription-only service, MASKED_NAME's List added a free membership tier in July 2016 
Responsibilities: 
Set up the entire MASKED_NAME processes, boards, trainings. 
Trained the entire organization on Agile and Scrum. 
Agile Program management for 3 of their scrum teams which were spread across MASKED_LOCATION & MASKED_LOCATION in MASKED_LOCATION. 
Conducted monthly management meetings and helped then with metrics and analysis of all scrum teams with respect to schedule, delivery and quality/ 
Conducted all sprint ceremonies like Sprint Planning, daily stand up, reviews & retrospective meetings for all scrum teams
Environment: C#, MASKED_NAME, CSS3, MS SQL Server 2010 
Client: MASKED_NAME a business of Thomson Reuters, MASKED_LOCATION, WA                Dec 2010 –August 2012
Role: Senior Manager, Project Manager
Project Description: 
Serengeti Intelligence System – Analytics Dashboards  
MASKED_NAME—a revolutionary way for law departments to easily access comparative and analytical information about your own performance—is ready to use within your MASKED_NAME subscription at no additional charge. And, we do it right in the context of your matters, invoices, and workflows. 
Financial – Compare your spending and risk data against similarly situated law departments to give you insights into your performance  
Operational – Assess the efficiency of your law department operations and management  
Firm – Evaluate your law firm portfolio and the performance of your law firms  
Evaluator – Improve analysis of law firm rates, rate increases, discounts and how your company’s bottom line is affected
Responsibilities:
Preparing and maintaining project Management Plan. 
Managing the schedule and quality of the deliverables through day-to-day planning, tracking and monitoring of the project. 
Triaging and prioritizing the requirements with the designated MASKED_NAME project/product Manager. 
MASKED_NAME, Project Planning & Tracking 
Maintaining Quality Standards 
Interaction with the client and coordinating offshore activities. 
Maintaining billing & other finance details of the project 
Data analysis, RCA, CAPA & Reporting 
Risk Management 
Conducting Monthly and Quarterly Business reviews 
Building Proposals, SOW and working on Presales. 
Resource Management
Environment: MASKED_NAME, SQL Server 2008, SSIS, SSAS, SSRS, XML 
Projects managed and delivered between Jan 2009 – July 2007 at Aditi 
Technologies as PROJECT MANAGER 
Client: Datacard Software India Pvt Ltd, Bangalore                                        Jan 2003 – July 2007
Role: MASKED_NAME, Performance Engineer, MASKED_NAME in MASKED_NAME based
MASKED_NAME  	:  Affina – Smart Cards Life Cycle Managing System
Client: Infosys Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bangalore                                August 2002 to January 2003
Role: Software Automation Test Engineer
Project Title   	:  CAMPUS PIPELINE 	
Environment 	: RTM Rational Robot, Clear Quest, and CP Table Builder.
Client: Webwavez Technologies, MASKED_NAME                                                   July 2000 to July 2002
Role: Software Engineer
Environment: MASKED_NAME, JSP, MSSQL, JavaScript
ACHIEVEMENTS:
Best Program Manager award from MASKED_LOCATION (Angie’s List – 2013) 
CEO, Aditi appreciations for contributions towards a Business Initiative in 2012.  
“Best Mechanized Project” for a project Aditi Technologies, MASKED_NAME ~“Best 
Performer” award in Aditi Technologies, MASKED_NAME  
‘‘Most Significant Contributor’ (For MASKED_NAME release) award at Datacard Software India Pvt Ltd, MASKED_NAME 