 Certified Project Manager -DevOps/Automation Architect
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
An Innovative and passionate Sr. Manager in MASKED_LOCATION with 14+ yrs. experience in IT Sector.
Experience of working in the most challenging environment, which gave me an opportunity to learn and implement different large-scale Programs & Projects by setting up QA processes and strategies for manual and automated testing.
Prince2-Practioner, Scrum Master Certified, 6Sigma & ITIL certified.
Knowledge on upcoming 5G network benefits and feasibilities to utilizes it with current IoT technology.
Expertized on using various automation frame works as per the requirements and client infrastructure,
A turnaround specialist & thought leader with extensive experience in formulating a vision, outlining strategy & leading teams that transform vision into execution.
MASKED_NAME skill set in Telecommunications sector on all types of network elements and configuration.
Proven record of accomplishment of building high powered organizations capable of delivering complex solutions concurrently across multiple product lines with a high degree of quality, scalability & reliability. 
Demonstrable performance in meeting aggressive deadlines & financial commitments while taking calculated risks with unproven technology & maturing organization. 
Well experienced in Implementation, Integration, Operation &Maintenance, Planning & troubleshooting of MASKED_NAME infrastructure and Supply chain projects. 
Experience in making recommendation to the client to choose the right life cycle and appropriate automation tools as per their organizational infrastructure and standards.
Experience with the concepts of High Availability, Disaster Recovery and AWS Cost Management and Optimization.
Expertized in implementing the large-scale projects with multiple platforms by balancing the traditional and new trending methodologies.
Collaborating with clients and AWS solutions support teams to achieve cloud adoption.
Expertized in setting the direction and adoption of the appropriate processes and techniques for effective delivery of SLAs and projects.
Leading customer facing AWS technical discussions in support of new sales opportunities as needed.
Expertized in Automation Framework design and implantation with appropriate recommendations to the client need.
Well versed with DevOps & agile methodologies and actively planned in various agile ceremonies like Scrum, Release planning, Sprint planning, product demos with Product Owner and Retrospectives.
Expertized in planning to create a healthy working culture with multiple cross functional teams across the Globe.
Areas of Expertise:	
Managerial Competencies
 Project Planning & Management    Management Development Skills         Standards and Priorities setting
 Process Enhancement                       Business Administration/Consulting    Stress Management
 Safety & Security Management       Quality Assurance & Control                 Strategy Planning & Direction
 Feasibility Analysis & Planning         Resource Management                          Executive Leadership Skills
 Vendor/Contract Management        Change / Risk Management                  Conflict Management
 Training & Development	     Business Excellence & Development  Process Automation (RPA)	   
 Team Building Skills		    Transparent & Empowered                   Target / Result Oriented            	
 Communication & Presentation Skills  Pre-sales & Bidding(RFB) 	             Strong Analytical Skills
 Customer Delivery & RFx. (RFI, RFP & RFQ) Conflict resolution management Decision Maker
Functional Competencies
 Project Management-DevOps		SCRUM management                                             Continuous Improvement    
 Program Launch                                              Business Operations Analysis/BSS/BPS              Complaint Resolution          
 Line Balancing	                                                Telecom- Innovation and Artificial Intelligence
 Reporting & Documentation		 Risk Analysis / Assessment                                   CoE Telecom
 Quality control & Assurance		 Economic Analysis		                        Policy Designing
 Coordination & Follow-up		 Troubleshooting Skills	                                        Projects Evaluation
 Liaising & Networking		                 Capacity Planning Maintenance                          Output Analysis 
 Budget Planning & Admin.	                 New Product Cost Analysis	                        Telecom Domain Expert
 Transition Management                                Cloud & Infrastructure Management
Key Skill Competencies
 Telecom ,Airlines & Finance  Domain Expert           Singl.eView, Oracle BRM, EBS, MASKED_LOCATION , ICOM  Billing Systems       MASKED_NAME, RSA & Enterprise Architecture  UIPath , Rational Robot, Selenium Web Driver, RC, TestNG,  Cucumber-BDD, ATDD & TDD, QTP , MASKED_NAME, WorkSoft-Certify  Data Visualisation Java, J2EE  .Net VB Script, MASKED_NAME ,Ruby, Python Unix, Oracle SQL Developer Oracle SOA Suit   Hadoop  Apache- Hive  Web Service Testing Soup UI & Pro  XML ValidationSQL Store Procedures Validation  Tibco Spotfire Lisa tool   SAP HR Workday SAP CRM & CRM Billing  SAP CRM Web Client SAP BW Hana, MM & FICO, SAP MII & MEMS Project Remedy       Siebel CRM Sales Force POS/mPOS, QV/QVXP JPAYMENT Back-Office(OIM-OIF)  Active DirectoryCredit Fraud ManagementTMAG  RAP AWS, AZURE & Google JenkinMaven/GitRallyJiraConfluenceKafka/Zookeeper Messaging systems. Jenkins/Puppet/Ansible/Docker/AWS/OpenStack. Black Chain Technology, Identity Management, Beacon Technology, Augmented technology
Professional Accomplishments: 
Conversant with all phases of Project Life Cycle including Requirement gathering, Analysis, Testing & Implementation of Quality Software. (SDLC (Software development MASKED_NAME), STLC (Software Testing life cycle) & PLM (Product Life Cycle Management)
Good understanding & experience in MASKED_LOCATION integration and MASKED_NAME.
Customer Engagements. Implementation of the product and troubleshooting issues in customer’s environments. Guiding the customers from the technical standpoint
10+ years of experience in direct interaction with Client & Stakeholders at client site.
Very Good Experience in Resource Provisioning in OIM, AD with ASR/LSR submission.
Experience in MASKED_NAME computing applications like IBM Middleware Integration, Tibco Integration & Oracle Cloud apps and MASKED_NAME.
8+ year of experience in design and implementing  the automation frame works like Selenium- TestNg, RC, Webdriver, DDT, BDD, ATDD, MASKED_NAME, UFT, MASKED_NAME, TOSCA & Work soft.
3+years of experience in MASKED_LOCATION project implementation using various feasible automation methodologies.
Worked with Waterfall, V- Model, and RUP & Agile methodologies & DevOps life cycle model.
Knowledge on ISO & CMMi levels and standards.
 Estimating & obtaining management support for time, resources & budget required to perform the testing.
Expertized in Project Reporting & estimation with using MS-Project/Excel.
Expertized in resource management & performance appraisals in MASKED_LOCATION.
Defining the Test Strategy & approaches.
Excellent hands on experience in generating various Project execution reports with Dashboards & Metrics/Audit reporting /PMO Reporting. 
Providing required training sessions to the team on Agile/Scrum principles and techniques.
Facilitating all scrum ceremonies like grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.
Ratifying change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of Scrum teams with quality of deliverables.
Empowered teams to self-organize and grow cross-functionality.
Protecting team from over-commitment, manage backlog, prioritize resolution of defects/bugs.
Manage the lifecycle of code development, from ideation to sprints to deployment
Collaborating with other members of management groups to develop the new products & Engineering groups.
Maintenance & Improves the Product quality by completing the product, system & audits.
Expertise in building a testing team of professionals with appropriated skills, attitudes & providing motivation.
Expertise in creating healthy & pressure less work environment to get excellent quality of work.
Expertise in developing Project Plan, MTP, STP for the tasks, dependencies & Participants required mitigating the risks to system quality & obtaining stakeholder support for this plan.
Expert in developing all type of project related artefacts & reports to communicate with Client & Stake holders.
Document, implement, monitor, & enforce all processes for testing as per standards defined by the organization.
Ensure the timely delivery of different testing milestones. 
Preparing / updating the metrics dashboard at the end of a phase or at the completion of project & performed audit on test artefacts.
Very good understanding and command on the Health care domain standards and codes like OCD9&10, OCIO policies & guidelines.
Expertise & Broad-based experience in testing practices (Functional, Automation, Performance, Security, etc.) 
MASKED_LOCATION project management, interpersonal communication, & collaboration skills
Proven record of accomplishment of delivering high quality products with On-shore & Off-shore model (teams that are globally distributed).
Coordination between cross functional & cross site team (QA, MASKED_LOCATION, development, Integration) to manage issues & their timely resolution
Career Snapshots: 
Project Manager- DevOps								Dec-2016 - Present
Ericsson-  WA, USA (I28 Tech Corporation)                                                 
QA Project Manager - IDM (Automation)						April 2014 –  MASKED_LOCATION
MASKED_NAME, MASKED_LOCATION (I28 Tech Corporation)                                                 
Test Architect-SingleView	(Automation 						May 2013 – April-2014
TCS   Sunnyvale-CA, USA (I28 Tech Corporation)                                                 
QA Project Lead/ Test Manager(Automation)					June 2009 – May 2013
IBM India Pvt. Ltd., India& Melbourne, Aus & Seattle- WA, MASKED_LOCATION
QA Lead / Test Manager:								May 2007 – June 2009
MASKED_NAME (on behalf of TirbalGold), Republic of South Africa
Senior Software Test Engineer:							January 2004 – May 2007
Mahivar Inc. Hyderabad- India
Educational Details 
 M.Sc., MASKED_NAME)
Ericsson – (Project Manager- DevOps                                                                                                                                 Dec-2016 -Present.
  Responsible for COE Automation projects.
  Involving business meetings to get understand the new scope to implement the feasible automation frameworks.
  Actively participating in all phases of SDLC and PLM to know the progress at each phase of the cycles.
Providing required training sessions to the team on Agile/Scrum principles and techniques.
Facilitating all scrum ceremonies like grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.
Ratifying change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of Scrum teams with quality of deliverables.
Empowered teams to self-organize and grow cross-functionality
Protecting team from over-commitment, manage backlog, prioritize resolution of defects/bugs as evidenced by the on-time delivery of major initiatives.
Met goal of addressing and resolving issues within a day.
Participated in reviews and provide required capacity in new clouds for the program.
Dealing with clients to understand their migration workloads and current footprint.
Provided the required MASKED_LOCATION experience for clients.
Planned for migration schedule from multiple platforms to one consolidated platform using AWS cloud platform.
Coordinated required support and process from internal team for migrations.
Complete required end user client documentation and communication
Document and update internal processes for migration process
Manage the lifecycle of code development, from ideation to sprints to deployment
Coordinate and manage code releases and shared APIs with other IT groups
Communicate with other management, engineers, product managers and support specialists on product issues
Track and communicate team velocity and sprint/release progress
Involving in Release process delivery activities to approve the code drops in Test environment and production.
Partner with stakeholders to identify and implement DevOps elements into the organization and establish best practices.
Validate and coordinating the Test Environment/Lab set ups and configuration pre-requisites in MASKED_LOCATION and research area.
Responsible for DevOps COE with preferred automation tools like Rational Robot- Python, UIPath & Tosca tools.
Ability to streamline development and QA processes through DevOps.
Maintain all environments and assure consistency and security throughout.
Establishing the standards for MASKED_NAME, Build, Repository Management, CI/CD, Configuration & Provisioning, Deployment and Environment Management process and tool standards.
Integrate DevOps into Release Management.
Assure DevOps scales universally for hosted, customer on premise, and cloud-based strategies.
Worked with third-parties for integration of DevOps practices.
Continually innovate and reduce technical debt.
Providing the right direction to use the DevOps tools like MASKED_NAME (release), Configuration (Ansible and Puppet Manager), Zookeeper (Orchestration process) & AWS and MASKED_NAME for Monitor and Virtualization.
Successfully execute all releases and co-ordinate the Go-Live activities including the execution of the deployment plans and checklists
Assure successful releases from Development, Test, Staging and Integration to Production
Following the innovative resource utilization methods to increase the productivity by minimizing the stress and work load.
Providing the technical support on RAN related areas in the Ericsson/ T-Mobile LAB.
Role & Responsibility at client site.
MASKED_NAME – T-Mobile                                                      		                    Manager/Testing- IDM April-2014-  Dec-2016
  Involving business meetings to get understand the new scope for MASKED_LOCATION effort.
Actively participating in all phases of SDLC and STLC to know the progress at each phase of the cycles.
Preparing QA overall estimations & intake processes.
Instructed and modeled core Agile principles of collaboration, prioritization, team accountability and visibility.
Providing required training sessions to the team on Agile/Scrum principles and techniques.
Facilitating all scrum ceremonies like grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.
Ratifying change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of Scrum teams with quality of deliverables.
Manage the lifecycle of code development, from ideation to sprints to deployment
Ensured consistent application of scrum methodologies across the enterprise solution.
Worked with the engineering managers to identify cross-team dependencies and manage inter-team tasks.
Taking Owner ship for Release Management process at QA stand point.
Preparing release delivery milestones and planning activities.
Involving as a Test Environment Owner to set up the Test Bed.
Creating Master Test plan, SIT Test Plan & test approaches.
Prepared and shared UAT test plan with UAT team.
Provided continuous support to UAT team during UAT Phase.
Involved technically in IDM 11g upgrade and implemented successfully OAM/OVD, OES/ESS & OIM 11g upgrades.
Successfully implemented the MASKED_NAME infrastructure on Azure cloud while replacing it with SAP.
Monitoring & Controlling the E2E testing & configuration for all Oracle Identity Management systems in U1.0 & U2.0 on AWS Could.
Validated the Test environment before hand-over to the QA.
SME for Identity Management System & SAP CRM/HANA.
Validating the critical Business process by taking self-care like Credit card fraud management / online transactions.
Involving in completing the purchase orders using POS.
Involved in E2E testing for Wholesale & Retail from Order to Cash.
Involved in E2E testing for Payments using diffident payment methods like EMV/Vesta/ CPM at Jypament system.
Involving in test data creation using Selenium automation team.
Developed & implemented BDD approach with Cucumber using Selenium tool. Was used Maven repository to store the developed script and data files for wider audience use in the organization.
Involved in MASKED_LOCATION system with globally distributed teams.
 Conducting Defect triage meetings.
Used exiting Robot automation framework for Regression and environment shakeout testing initially later moved to Selenium.
Involving in testing for critical areas of SAP HR, MASKED_LOCATION, AD (Oracle Active Directory) & OIM, CRM, MASKED_NAME), Siebel CRM & SFDC.
Performed regression and Sanity testing on SAP CRM and Care application using Worksoft certify automation tool.
Developed test automation scripts to test the product on multiple Mobile devices and iPad/ tablets.
Taking care of AD configuration & SAP Hana Studio configuration set up.
Taking care & executing High Visible   business scenarios by myself.
Conducting On/Offshore hand off meetings. 
Given presentations to the Business Users on the test strategy (how to test) on the new architecture.
Conducted workshops on Testing methods and functionalities with UAT & Business team.
Prepared and shared test execution process documents and results.
Worked closely with the development team during Designing, Development Phase & participated in MASKED_LOCATION.
TCS-US –MASKED_NAME –  Automation -Lead Test Architect                                       
(Singl.eView billing/ Oracle EBS Billing System) 				   May-2013-  April-2014 (Sunnyvale- CA)
Involved in all meetings with business teams.
Implement DevOps team(s), processes and tools
Involved in all stages of SDLC to get better understanding of the Program level E2E work flows.
Involved in entire STLC and DLC to know the progress and unblock the testing from road blockers throughout the STLC.
Given presentation to the clients on our test strategy & transformation on SingleView Billing System.
Successfully performed E2E integration between Siebel CRM to SingleView Billing system.
Organized and aligned with the sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos, and other Scrum-related meetings.
Trained the offshore and onshore team to create clear and concise epics/stories.
Facilitated Scrum of Scrum for offshore teams in MASKED_LOCATION.
Evangelized the benefits of Scrum to ensure its smooth adoption
Assisted team with making appropriate commitments through story selection, sizing and task definition and participated proactively in developing and maintaining team standards, tools and best practices.
Prepared estimations for QA effort.
Prepared Master Test Plan & SIT test plan.
Extensively involved in E2E testing from Quote to Cash.
SME for Singl.eView billing system in MASKED_LOCATION area.
Reporting to Program Director and project manager on billing progress.
Involved in JAD sessions
Involved in E2E testing to test the critical business flows & process.
Designed and implemented  Rational Robot frame for UI and API automation testing on Salesforce and Siebel applications.
Prepared High Level Test scenarios & Test Cases
Defined the Single View billing flows for rating & normalization.
Defined new invoicing method for non-telecom billing products.
Worked on integration of Major applications like Workday, MASKED_NAME, SFDC, UCM Tibco, SingleView. 
Co-ordinated with UAT business to provide the support in their execution.
Conducted onshore/Offshore Hand-off meetings.
IBM India PVT LTD                                                                                       			    Test Manager (June-2009- May-2013) 
Involved in all meetings with business teams as per the SDLC meeting scheduled by PM.
Involved in all stages of STLC and prepared test strategies as per defined schedule.
Given presentation to the clients on our test strategy & transformation.
Prepared estimations for QA effort.
SME for Telecom Billing systems like BRM, EBS, Singl.eView, ICOM, EPPIX & SAMSON.
SME and Leading the project for SAP CRM, MASKED_LOCATION and MI & MES architecture.
Implemented the SAP MII & ME E2E project for Optic fiber cable manufacturing client.
Involved during the Commissioning & Integration of the network elements (HUAWEI) of 3G lab.
Debugging of issues during the first call of the network from RNC and Core network side. 
MSC configuration fault brought to notice due to which call was not proceeding and got it resolved through vendor.
Involved in Test Automation implementation using various automation tools like IBM RQM, Clear Quest,  & Selenium.
HLR (Apertio) Configuration and SIM configuration done for all security related algorithms and subscription parameters carried out. 
SGSN, GGSN and HLR configuration definition (APN and GPRS profile configuration) done for PS call.
Defined new test strategy for this client & presented with them.
Involved in JAD sessions
Involved in E2E testing to test the critical business flows & process.
Prepared Master Test Plan & SIT test plan.
Prepared High Level Test scenarios & Test cases.
Involved in Test execution.
Involved in critical business scenarios testing for capital & investment banking along with Credit card fraud management.
Conducted Daily Defect Meetings with Dev & SA teams.
Daily defect triage meetings by following agile method.
Daily stand up sprint meetings with the teams.
ILabs- RSA- MTN,  SA Airlines -(Johannesburg)                                       			                                 May-2007- June-2009 
Worked as a QA/UAT Lead Manager & responsible for analyzing & understanding the requirements.
Participated in JAD Sessions to understand the design solution for the new product.
Participated in requirement analysis meetings.
SME for Telecom Billing systems like MASKED_LOCATION and Singl.eView. 
Played a key role in migrating the MASKED_LOCATION billing system to Singl.eView Billing system.
Trained the team members with the knowledge gained from the meetings with business.
Designed Test Plan/Strategy.
Introduced new testing approach to reduce the stress on the employees.
Identified the appropriated test approaches to test the new feature.
Prepared Test Scenarios based on the MASKED_LOCATION documents.
Prepared the High-Level Test Cases to help the team members.
Reviewed the test cases.
Reported Status on Daily/Weekly/Monthly basis by following organizational hierarchy.
Conducted Daily defect status meetings with related teams.
Mahivar Inc- India- ABSA/ South African Airlines                        		         Hyderabad- India- January-2004- May-2007
Worked as a QA Tester & responsible for analyzing & understanding the requirements.
Took part in Requirements walkthrough meetings.
Performed the detailed analysis of the requirements for designing of the test cases & any Ambiguities in the requirements/documents were resolved with the BA & SMEs.
Responsible for creating the Test plan & the Test cases.
Performed the execution of the test cases & tested the application features like MASKED_NAME, Plan, Features, Profile, support & Usage Info.
Worked closely with the development team to get the QA activities done effectively.
Extensively involved in MASKED_LOCATION, Functional Testing.
Coordinated the defect review calls with the development team.
Fully involved in Defect Triage meetings.
Professional Trainings & Certifications 
PRINCE2-Practioner
SCRUM Certified Master
ITIL Certified.
Six Sigma