Spoorti Pandit
MASKED_PHONE
MASKED_EMAIL
Summary of qualifications:
Technically sophisticated, seasoned and talented professional powered with more 9.5 years of experience in Business Analysis and various domains including Banking & Financial Services and Infrastructure industry
Implemented and delivered many end to end implementation, maintenance and support projects in BFSI and Infrastructure domain.
Excellent Analytical skills to understand and analyze the Business processes, Gather Requirement, perform GAP Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis.
Proficient in facilitating Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) sessions with Business User Groups, Subject Matter Experts and IT Groups.
Extensive experience in documenting Business Requirement Documents (BRD), Functional Requirement Documents (FRD), MASKED_NAME, Process Flows, User Stories and Use Cases using UML approaches.
Proficient in writing Test scripts and performing Functional testing, System integration testing, User Acceptance Testing and have extensive knowledge of tools used for managing the core lifecycle of applications like HP ALM.
Experience in tracking requirements throughout SDLC using the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).
Experience in providing UAT support, preparing Job Aids and assisting in preparing User training material.
In depth knowledge in Software Development Life cycle (SDLC), Project Life cycle, Business Process Modeling (BPM), Waterfall Software Development Methodology
Expertise
Requirement Gathering & Analysis, Articulating Business Requirements to Functional Requirement Specifications, Preparing Process Flows and Use Cases, Writing Test Script, Performing Functional and System Integration Testing, Supporting User Acceptance testing, Defect and Requirement tracking using HP ALM, Preparing job Aids.
Worked on various tools and technologies like Mainframes, ServiceNow, HP ALM, IBM MASKED_NAME, SQL Server, MASKED_NAME for MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, MASKED_NAME, SDLC, Waterfall methodology.
Work Experience
Role:Lead Business Systems Analyst					August 2016- Till Now
Project Name: Asset Classification
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description: Over time, asset have been added to the PNC investment platform without updates to the associated asset class hierarchy.  As a result, the number of assets contained in the “Other” sub asset class category has steadily grown. Also, the classification of assets is inconsistent across various systems. The purpose of this project is to bring uniformity to the presentation of the asset classes across various AMG systems and reduce volume of securities contained in “Other” sub categories
Responsibilities:
Thoroughly understood and analyzed the current asset classification hierarchy being used in the Asset Management line of business of PNC and various upstream and downstream systems consuming these asset classes.
Documented the current Asset Classification hierarchy, various process flows and data flows using MS Excel and MASKED_NAME.
Gathered business requirements from various stake holders by participating in joint requirement planning sessions with the business user groups, key stake holders, subject matter experts and various IT Groups across Asset Management line of business of PNC.
Performed Gap Analysis, Feasibility Analysis, Risk Assessment and Impact Analysis of the proposed requirements.
Prepared Business Requirement Documents (BRD’s) and performed business requirement walkthroughs with various stakeholders
Analyzed and documented the future state asset classification hierarchy, designed and documented future state process flows and data flows.
Articulated the business requirements into functional and non-functional requirements, prepared Functional Design Specifications (FDS) by employing UML components such as use case diagrams, activity diagrams and data flow diagrams using MASKED_NAME.
Identified and documented the project Constraints, Assumptions, Dependencies and scope Exclusions.
Performed functional requirement walkthroughs with various teams including the line of business, Development and QA teams
Prepared Test strategy, Test Plan, Test Scenarios and Test Scripts for various release cycles.
Performed Functional Testing, System Integration Testing, Regression Testing and support User Acceptance Testing during various release cycles.
Logged, MASKED_NAME and Tracked defects in various testing phases using HP ALM tool. Worked with the Development teams to ensure the timely closure of the defects.
Served as a liaison between the business stakeholders, development team, QA team, various upstream and downstream application teams in designing and implementing the functionalities.
Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix to trace requirements throughout the development and testing processes.
Provided post production support after various application release cycles.
Environment\Tools: Mainframes, SDLC Waterfall, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SQL Server, MASKED_NAME for MASKED_NAME.
Role:Lead Business Systems Analyst					May2015- July 2016
Project Name: Prospectus Delivery Improvements
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description:PNC was utilizing Broadridge’s Prospectus delivery service to determine the eligibility of a client to
receive Post sales and the Interim communication. To comply with the regulatory requirements, PNC wanted to revisit the
eligibility of the various clients to receive prospectus and determine the consent type required to household and
consolidate the prospectus. The objective of the project was also to reduce the cost of paper mailing by implementing
e-Delivery for both post sales and interim prospectus delivery processes.
Responsibilities:
Thoroughly understood the Post sales,MASKED_NAME and e-delivery Prospectus delivery processes of PNC, various systems involved, various integrations and the associated workflows
Documented the current state process flows for both Post sales and interim prospectus delivery using MASKED_NAME.
Gathered Business Requirements by Facilitating and conducting Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions with various Stake holders, Decision makers, Business Users, SME’s and IT Groups across Asset Management Line of Business of PNC.
Conducted Gap analysis, Feasibility Study, Risk Assessment and Impact Analysis of the proposed requirements.
Designed and documented future state process flows for post sales, MASKED_NAME and e-delivery Prospectus delivery. Provided the solution that addressed the pain areas of the inherent design.
Prepared High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document (FRD), Use cases and User stories to help the stakeholders and the Development team understand the design and functionality of the future state.
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team, QA teams to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements, Coordinated and worked with various upstream and downstream applications teams to ensure various interfaces/integrations are implemented as required.
Reviewed Test strategy, Test plan and Test scripts and provide feedback to the QA team
Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing. 
Logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM, Provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects.
Worked with the development team for defect fixes, retested the fixes and ensured the timely closure of the defects.
Traced the MASKED_NAME throughout the software development cycle using HP ALM.
Environment\Tools: Mainframes, SDLC Waterfall, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, SQL Server, MASKED_NAME for MASKED_NAME.
Role:Lead Business Analyst 						Oct 2014- April 2015
Project Name:ITSM- Employee On boarding
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description: This objective of the project was to add the Employee Onboarding Stream onto the ServiceNow platform. The project dealt with the design and development of an application that would support the new hire onboarding process.
Responsibilities:
Thoroughly understood the current MASKED_LOCATION On boarding process of PNC and the various systems involved, identified and analyzed the pain points of the current system 
Documented the current state process flows using Business Process Modelling tool IBM   Blue works and MASKED_NAME.
Facilitated and conducted Joint Requirement Planning (JRP) to gather Business requirements from various stake holders and also interviewed the Business Users, Key Stake Holders, SMEs, and Decision makers across all domains.
Performed requirement analysis and documented the requirements in the Business Requirement Document (BRD) 
Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the ITSM ServiceNow EOB application.
Performed Feasibility study and Impact analysis of each requirement
Designed and documented future state process flows for Employee Onboarding and provided solutions to overcome the pain areas of the current system.
Prepare High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document (FRD), process guide and user stories for the New EOB system to help the EOB stakeholders and the Development team understand the design and functionality of the future state.
Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix for tracing the MASKED_NAME throughout the application development process
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the QA team to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements in the Functional and Integration test scripts
Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing and logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM.
Created Use Cases for the EOB stream.
Prepared User Acceptance Test scripts, coordinated and provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects to ensure the closure of the defects on time.
Prepared Job aids and assisted the training team to come up with the training material for the MASKED_LOCATION system
Environment\Tools: Service Now, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, MASKED_NAME
Role: Business Analyst						Feb 2014- Sep 2014
Project Name:ITSM- Service Request Fulfillment
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description: PNC was managing many disparate Service Request Fulfillment systems. This projects objective was to add the Service Request Fulfillment systems onto the ServiceNow platform to continue building the foundation for future consolidation efforts of having all of PNC’s IT Request types into ServiceNow to create a single IT Request window for end-users.
Responsibilities:
Understood the “As IS “service request process of Hardware, Software, VPN, LAN, Desk phone of PNC and the various systems involved, identified and analyzed the pain points of the current systems
Facilitated and conducted Joint Requirement Planning (JRP), interviewed the Business Users, Key Stake Holders, SME’s to gather Business requirements across all domains.
Performed requirement analysis and documented the requirements in the Business Requirement Document (BRD) 
Conducted Gap analysis, Feasibility study and Impact analysis of various requirements 
Prepare High level design documents like Functional Requirement Document (FRD) and process guides for the New Service Request system employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MASKED_NAME.
Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix for tracing the MASKED_NAME throughout the application development process
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the QA team to ensure complete understanding and coverage of requirements in the Functional and Integration test scripts
Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing and integration testing and logged, tracked and maintained the defects using HP ALM.
Prepared User Acceptance Test scripts, coordinated and provided UAT support during the UAT Testing by recreating the defects and Performing Root Cause analysis of the defects to ensure the closure of the defects on time.
Prepared Job aids and assisted the training team to come up with the training material for the MASKED_LOCATION system
Environment\Tools: Service Now, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, MASKED_NAME
Role: Business Systems Analyst				Jan 2013 to Jan 2014
Project Name:New Account Opening
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description:The existing process of establishing a new brokerage account involved data entry in multiple applications. The aim of the project was to improve the quality of data through more robust system integration, improve the user experience by improving the ease of use, improve efficiency by providing a single process for new account opening, reduce the number of NIGO accounts through improved business rules and edits and MASKED_NAME the number of manual interventions/additional data entry required by the new accounts area.
Responsibilities:
Thoroughly studied the inherent AS-IS system specifications of Brokerage New Account opening system of PNCI to have a clear understanding of the business processes and associated workflows.
Identified the pain points in the existing New Account Opening System, analyzed and provided solutions to overcome these pain points, Conducted Fit Gap analysis to understand functionalities to be incorporated into the new system.
Conducted online polling to understand the level of pain, frequency of occurrence and the benefit of resolution of various pain areas which involved participation from various stakeholders.
Contributed to define the scope of the project by analyzing and prioritizing the pain areas based on the polling results.
Participated in Joint Requirement Planning (JRP), Joint Application Development (JAD) with Business User Groups, Subject Matter Experts and IT Groups catering to Investment Line of Business of PNC.
Gathered high level requirements from various stake holders by interviewing the Key Stake Holders, SMEs, and Decision makers across all domains.
Performed the Requirement Analysis, Fit Gap analysis, Impact analysis and Feasibility study for each requirement. 
Prepared Functional Design Specifications (FDS) employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MS MASKED_NAME and documented the entire process journey including documentation of constraints, assumptions, business impacts, project risks, dependencies and scope exclusions.
Created the Requirement Traceability Matrix and traced requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team and UI team to answer all their queries and help them to prepared Screen Mock ups, User Interface designs for various functional requirements.
Environment\Tools: SDLC Waterfall,IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint
Role: Business Systems Analyst				August 2012- Dec 2012
Project Name:I&R Portal
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description:Desktop Portal is a one stop shop for the Users which provides a 360-degree view of the client information, various accounts in various PNC systems as per the entitlements of the user. It provides SSO authentication to various applications of the PNC Bank. The project was related to the maintenance and enhancement of the Desktop portal application.
Responsibilities:
Gathered and Analyzed Requirements, prepared Functional Design Specifications (FDS) employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MASKED_NAME including documentation of constraints, assumptions, business impacts, project risks, dependencies and scope exclusions
Performed the Fit Gap analysis, Impact analysis and Feasibility study for various proposed application enhancements.
Prepared Screen Mock ups, User Interface designs for various requirements.
Created Requirement Traceability Matrix and traced the requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the MASKED_LOCATION and QA teams with the aim to develop testing strategies and test plans such that test cases reflect user needs. 
Assisted QA team by Reviewing Test Scenarios, Test Scripts and clarifying requirements to ensure complete coverage of requirements. 
Conducted application testing including system testing, functional testing, integration testing, and supported User Acceptance Testing using HP ALM for logging tracking and maintaining defects.
Environment\Tools: MASKED_NAME, SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, Sharepoint, Snagit
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
Role: Business Systems Analyst					May 2011- July 2012
Project Name:Profiling and Playbook
Client: PNC Financial Services
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description:Profiling and Playbook project was intended to develop a consistent, personalized and repeatable process to guide clients to the appropriate asset allocation models, provide a means to service the client so that advice received is transferable from one ISA to another, manage PNC’s risk by following a documented procedure and Leverage PNC’s research and analysis to narrow the field of funds through a thorough due diligence and screening process.
Responsibilities:
Thoroughly studied the “As Is” processes of profiling a PNC Investment customer to have a clear understanding of the business processes and associated system workflows.
Gathered Business requirements from business users and various Investment stake holders, Conducted Gap analysis to understand new business model and additional functionalities to be incorporated into the Profiling and MASKED_NAME application.
Clarified and prioritized requirements by conducting brainstorming sessions with the stakeholders and SME’s.
Prepared Functional Requirement Document (FRD) employing UML components such as Use Case Diagrams, Activity Diagrams and Process Flow Diagrams using MASKED_NAME.
Performed Data Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis of new business requirements.  
Documented use cases to address various business scenarios.
Prepared the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) to track requirements throughout the development and testing processes
Created a complex dashboard for business users to track progress of various investment goals of a customer.
Environment\Tools: SDLC Waterfall, IBM Blueworks live, HP ALM, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
Role: Business Systems Analyst						May 2009- April 2011
MASKED_LOCATION:BOSE- Tier 1
Client: Bose Corporation
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description:BOSE uses SAP for carrying out its various Sales and Distribution related business Processes. This objective of the project was to support and maintain Sales and distribution module of SAP
.
Responsibilities:
Understanding and analyzing various sales related business processes like Order Management, Repair, Consignment and Gift Cards etc.
Followed a systematic approach for eliciting, organizing, and documenting requirements of the system.
Performed Gap Analysis, Data Analysis, Feasibility Study and Impact Analysis.
Prepared Functional requirement specifications (FRD).
Performed requirement walkthroughs with the Development team.
Documented use cases to address various scenarios.
Tracing requirements throughout the development and testing processes and verify adherence using the Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM).
Creating Test Strategy, Test Scenarios and Test Scripts.
Performing System Testing, Functional Testing, Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and tracking and managing them through Mercury QC and HP ALM tools.
Environment\Tools: SAP, SDLC MASKED_NAME, IBM Blueworks live, HPQC, QTP, MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.
Role: Business Analyst						June 2008- April 2009
Project Name:CPG Practice
Client: TCS Internal
MASKED_ADDRESS
Project Description: This was an internal practice group of the MASKED_NAME vertical of TCS. The focus was on coming up with the solution and offering for the retail clients to increase their efficiency and productivity, working on RFP’s and other documentation.
Responsibilities:
Worked on RFP’s like P&G and MASKED_LOCATION 
Understanding the various Sales and distribution processes for the retail industry.
Created Business process mapping of the legacy systems of the prospect clients using MASKED_NAME.
Worked on various solutions and offerings for the MASKED_NAME clients.
Environment\Tools:MASKED_NAME, MS Office Suite, SharePoint, Snagit