MASKED_NAME
Business Analyst/Consultant
Highly accomplished Business Analyst / Consultant with proven track record of managing complex IT projects and exceeding expectations. Practiced in clarifying business requirements, performing gap analysis between goals and existing procedures/skill sets and designing process and system improvements to increase productivity and reduce costs.
SYNOPSIS
Diligent and Result driven MCA professional with more than MASKED_ADDRESS / Consultant
Domain Experience: Banking, Payments & Supply Chain Management.
Analyse and document the business process flows and high level scenarios by interacting closely with Customers
Prepared detailed Functional requirement document(FRD) based on the Business requirement MASKED_NAME) along with the coordination of Design Team for accounting systems
Support the Project managers in Estimations, Test Planning and Test Strategy.
Project Scheduling, Resource pooling and conduct meetings with stakeholders for project implementation
Prepared Gap Analysis where Functional and domain gaps are identified and advised.
Process Maps and Requirement Documentation based on User Inputs.
Validation of Data using SQL queries and Analysis of data post migration
Involved in preparation of User Manuals & provided training for the technical & bank users
Worked on Testing Projects and has gained good knowledge of SDLC.
Planning and organizing Test Team during Preparation and Execution Phases.
Handled the testing team in preparing and reviewing the scenario & test cases and also clarifying the queries related to functional requirements. Core competence includes depth knowledge in Finacle & Global Pay Plus (GPP)
Triage defects to review the validity and business severity to Manage defect delivery
Updating customers periodically and escalating Issues and Risks to ensure the test schedule is on track
Produce functional UAT Business scenarios and review SIT and UAT test cases
MASKED_NAME (CR) document preparation and impact analysis for the same and provided Estimation of Cost and Effort
Knowledge of Behavior Driven Development (BDD)
Played the role of a System & Audit Analyst in Retail Banking for ICICI Bank & Dhanlaxmi Bank, expertise includes in depth knowledge of Branch operations, KYC, AML, Audit & Compliance and Risk analysis
Achievements include nomination for Leadership Program by MASKED_NAME head and preparation & execution of Live Project in MASKED_LOCATION service (FOCUS) by meeting the customer and gather requirements and providing a new process and implement the same to increase the customer service. 
Played the role of a EDP Analyst in Paper & Medical Industry which involves Interaction with the user and the management and provide feasible solution & customized reports based on the requirement in an ERP Application
Possess strong leadership, interpersonal, decision-making, critical thinking, problem solving and communication skills used to foster positive relationship with management, internal staff, and clients, honed through extensive experience as MASKED_NAME lead and handling upto 15 members very well towards the project delivery.
Areas of Expertise
Expertise in End to End Testing of Banking and Financial Services Applications
Expertise in MASKED_LOCATION testing of web based applications
Expertise in defining defect management process
Expertise in translating Business requirements to understandable systems requirements.
Expertise in Functional Test scenarios, Test Execution and MASKED_NAME reporting
Expertise in Managing status reports, analysis and decision-making for a change request. 
Good domain knowledge of Core Banking Modules especially Retail Banking & Payments
Expertise in analysing the Functional requirement & Business Rule document.
External certification
ISTQB Certified
Technical Skills
Methodologies				: SDLC, MASKED_NAME, Agile / Scrum
Databases				: MS Access, SQL
Business Process Modeling Tools	: MS VISIO
Quality Management			: HP Quality Center, JIRA, Rational Clear quest, Red mine
GUI/Tools				: MS Word, MS Excel, SnagIt, Photoshop
Documentation Tool			: SharePoint, MS Office Suite (Word/Excel/Power Point)
Languages				: C, JAVA
Application				: Finacle, MASKED_NAME, Flexcube, MASKED_NAME
Experience Sum	mary
IT World Build, MASKED_LOCATION							         Apr MASKED_ADDRESS
Finance & Inventory Application
Project Description:
This application is developed to run a small business and manage both the financial and Inventory. The application includes business functionalities such as Accounting, Finance, MASKED_LOCATION, Sales, Purchase, Point of Sales, Payroll, reports and Branch Management.
Responsibilities:
Analyzed the overall system/application and gained an overview of its functionalities
Collaborated closely with stakeholders and cross functional groups to gather, analyze and document Business and Functional Requirements (BRD and FRD)
Followed Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology
Obtained Business Signoff for the deliverables after detailed reviews by the stakeholders, project manager and business system analyst
Assisted the project manager in creating project plans and scheduling and tracking project timelines
Worked as a primary liaison between the business users and the developers throughout the project cycle
Planned and attended SCRUM meetings 
Conducted Functional Requirement Walkthrough sessions with the business and development teams
Developed test scenarios and implemented test plans
Performed User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Integration testing and Regression testing
ENVIRONMENT: JIRA, MS Office, Agile/Scrum, ERP, SQL
Barclays Bank, MASKED_LOCATION								         Jun MASKED_ADDRESS
Project: Masspay – Global Payments
Project Type: Implementation – System Testing & System Integration Testing
Project Description:
Barclays an International bank with a strong European presence is implementing SEPA with MASKED_NAME application for MASKED_NAME
Responsibilities:
Understanding the Business requirements, Functional specification documents, Functional requirement document and Interface requirement document.
Analysis of Requirement and providing domain guidance to the team
Understanding the Business Requirement Document and involved in Preparation & Review of Functional Requirement Document
Preparation and Review of Testware - Test Scope, Test Scenarios, Test conditions, Data Guidelines and Run Plan within the timelines
Collected the related data guidelines and ensured the same is updated in the system by the business to perform the UAT
Prepared Requirement Traceability Matrices (RTM) and managed every change requests effectively throughout the software development life cycle.
Mapping the business rules to the requirement associated with it and ensure that the same is triggered during execution
Validate the data for the reports at the backend using SQL queries
Created Change Request (CR) Documents. Analyzed the change request and co-ordinate the changes required with the development team and business users
Co-ordination/MASKED_NAME between the Client and the testing team.
Review and Analysis of Testware.
Review clarifications raised by testers and facilitate closure
ENVIRONMENT: QC 10.0, MASKED_NAME 3.4, MS Office, XML, Agile/Scrum
The Housing Bank for Trade & Finance (HBTF), Jordan				Jan MASKED_ADDRESS
Project: Implementation of Core Banking System 
Project type: Implementation – Systems Integration Testing & User Acceptance Testing
Project Description:
HBTF a leading commercial bank in MASKED_LOCATION wanted to replace its legacy system with Finacle V10.3.6 (CBS) for its banking operations.
Responsibilities:
Understanding the Business requirements and Functional specification documents.
Preparation of Testware - Test Scope, Test Scenarios, Data Guidelines & Run plan
Guided and facilitated the team by answering queries promptly especially during UAT execution.
Co-ordination/MASKED_NAME between the Client, Development team and the testing team.
Performed data analysis using SQL queries.
Involved in migration of Data from one DB to another DB
Performed GAP Analysis by comparing the existing system to the future system to create “AS-IS” and “TO-BE” flow charts and generated impact and risk involved.
Responsible for efficient document management and Version Control using MS SharePoint and to update the document and transmit the information to the management
Review and Analysis of Testware.
Defect Analysis, Co-ordination and involved in Defect meeting with developers & business users
Involved in preparation of Functional Analysis
Review of Hold case analysis and Deferred case analysis
Review clarifications raised by testers and facilitate closure
ENVIRONMENT: Rational clear quest, Red Mine, Finacle 10.3.6, CRM, SQL, Waterfall
Ratnakar Bank Ltd, MASKED_LOCATION							May MASKED_ADDRESS
Project: Implementation of Core Banking System
Project Type: Implementation – Systems Integration Testing & User Acceptance Testing
Project Description:
Ratnakar Bank Ltd, a bank in MASKED_LOCATION which is having more than MASKED_ADDRESS a new Core Banking system for its banking operations.
Responsibilities:
Understanding the Business requirements and Functional specification documents.
Preparation of Testware - Test Scope, Test Scenarios, Data Guidelines & Run Plan
Guided and facilitated the team by answering queries promptly especially during UAT execution.
Co-ordination/MASKED_NAME between the Client, Development team and the testing team.
Performed data analysis using SQL queries.
Involved in migration of Data from one DB to another DB
Coordinated tasks with multiple systems and departments to successfully complete the UAT effort
Planned and facilitated AS-IS Business process and workflow models to create TO BE Business scenarios. 
Created Non Functional Requirements (NFR) with the inputs from Technical Architects 
Review and Analysis of Testware.
Defect Analysis and Co-ordination.
Created Change Request (CR) Documents. Analyzed the change request and co-ordinate the changes required with the development team and business users
Prepared the User Manuals and provided training for the technical and bank users
Equipped in learning cross-functional modules to understand the system better and provide alternate solutions
Assisted Project manager on  preparing  the Business Proposals
ENVIRONMENT:  JIRA 5.0, Finacle 10.2.9, CRM, MS-Office, SQL, Waterfall
Dhanlaxmi Bank Ltd, Chennai							Sep 2011 till Apr 2012
System & Audit Analyst
Retail Banking
Responsibilities:
Managing a team of 10 members and taking care of the operations.
Examining the current system of the Bank
Interacting with users to gather business and technical requirements
Identified opportunities for Business Process Improvement and initiated efforts to make improvements.
Analyse requirement to provide solutions satisfactory to the Bank, taking into account established standards and guidelines
Translating business requirements to functional specification document
Identifying the impact and risk for the new or modified system
Liaising with developers and testers to support implementing the new or modified system
Conducting due diligence for the Account opening forms.
Monitoring registers such as cash, security items, deliverables, inward, outward, key movement & gold loan registers.
Monitoring dormant, deceased claim, MASKED_NAME documents of the customers
Monitoring AML (Anti Money Laundering) such as high value transactions, genuine of cash transactions above 10 lacs and reviewing transactions in new accounts.
Ensure that the daily CRL (Cash Retention Limit) is maintained and surprise cash verification being conducted randomly.
Ensure that gold loan packets, deliverables, kits and security items are in dual custody.
Ensure that all RTGS & NEFT transactions are successful.
Monitoring routing accounts on a daily basis and suspense account on monthly basis.
Generating & validating daily reports such as Cash, Authentication, Batch Journal and exception reports.
Review of requests lodged in E-tracker for customer requests and account opening forms.
Checking of all vouchers for the day and review for correctness of authorization.
Ensure updation of lockers issued in online module and locker access register.
ENVIRONMENT:  Flex cube, Windows 95/98/NT/2000, MS-Office, MASKED_LOCATION
ICICI Bank Ltd, Chennai								Jan MASKED_ADDRESS
Retail Banking
Responsibilities:
Managing a team of 21 members and taking care of the entire branch 
Analysing the current system and understanding the operations of the Bank
Interacting with the users and gather requirements
Provide specifications for new or modified systems
Worked with Business Users and Stakeholders if there were requirement changes to be on the same page.
Performed end to end testing of the new functionality designed before it went for the release
Liaising with IT staff such as programmers to produce new systems
Monitoring of various Registers such as Cash, MASKED_NAME, Inward, Outward, Key movement and Fake notes register.
Submission of various reports to Corporate office such as CAT1, CAT2, MASKED_LOCATION, CAT5, COMP1, COMP2, PFORM and MASKED_LOCATION.
Monitoring of Office Accounts.
Generation of Exception, Irregularity, Mitra, Service Wait time reports and unresponded entries on a daily basis
Reconciliation of reports such as Inventory status, Gold coin, locker, Deliverables, Travel Cards and I-KITS on a fortnightly basis
Monitoring of KYC & AML transactions.
MASKED_NAME service meet on monthly basis and submitting the same to Regional office.
Submission of Self Audit MIS and MASKED_NAME on a monthly basis. 
Preparation of SOAX report for the branch on a Quarterly basis
Reconciliation of Fixed Asset list for the branch on a Quarterly basis
Internal Audit Compliance
People Management and Time Management
Scrutinizing the documents pertaining to Trade Finance and FOREX such as Outward Remittances, Import payment, MASKED_NAME and Sale of Foreign Currency.
ENVIRONMENT: Windows 95/98/NT/2000, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, Finacle CRM, Finnone, MS-Office, QC
Johnson & Johnson Ltd, Chennai					Jun MASKED_ADDRESS 
Supply Chain – Material Management, Logistics, Reports
Responsibilities:
Working in an ERP Environment - JD Edwards (MASKED_LOCATION)
Inspected existing system and documents, and reviewed new Business Requirement Documents
Conduct Requirement Walkthrough Sessions with Technical & QA teams to analyse on the management reports.
Record the desired reports in Excel with sample data and presented to the Development and Business users for sign-off
Maintaining Stock Inward & Stock Outward register and preparing reports on a monthly basis.
Performing Inventory count and preparing accuracy report.
Interaction with the user and Customers over phone as well as through MASKED_NAME and gathering requirements
ENVIRONMENT:  Windows 95/98/NT/2000, MASKED_NAME, MS-Office
South India Paper, Chennai					Jul MASKED_ADDRESS
Supply Chain – Inventory Control, Invoicing, Logistics, Sales & Distribution, Reports
Responsibilities:
Placing indent on Manufacture & Arranging for clearance. 
Goods Receipt Note Preparation & Invoicing. 
Inventory Control & Stock Reconciliation. 
Preparing Credit Notes / Debit Notes. 
Generation of Various Reports (Weekly, Monthly & Yearly). 
Preparing Trial Balance, MIS, Balance sheet and Profit & Loss account. 
Document the requirements gathered from the users and management 
Providing the customized reports based on the requirement
ENVIRONMENT:  Windows 95/98/NT/2000, MASKED_NAME, MS-Office.
Educational qualifications
Masters of Computer Application (MCA) – Madras University, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION. (2005).
Bachelors of Computer Science (BS) – Madras University, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION. (2000).