SUNITHA
SENIOR PROJECT MANAGER
EMAIL: MASKED_EMAIL               Contact: MASKED_PHONE
PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCIES
A skillful, accomplished, results-oriented Technology professional with over 15+ years of experience leading and contributing to large scale IT projects in matrix organization with cross-functional project teams, leading new or expanding initiatives in large, cross-functional, or multi-company efforts. Building strong, trusted relationships throughout organizations, from executive level to individual contributors.
Wide Techno-Functional and project management background, experienced at functioning strategically with business leaders to transform business needs into technology results.
Extensive experience in all aspects of Project management (PMBOK) and system development life cycle (SDLC) using Clarity for both MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME and Hybrid methodologies in MASKED_LOCATION, Functional and Direct Line environments. 
Proficiency in supporting client with requirements gathering, analysis and design, project planning, project execution, project documentation, change management and quality assurance
Extensive Experience in Cross-Functional Project leadership, with all project stages including Project Conceptualization, Initiation, Project Planning, Project coordination, Project estimation, Risk Management, Requirements determination, Gap analysis, Business process reengineering, Issue resolution, MASKED_LOCATION, Testing, Training, Go-live assistance and Post implementation support.
Experience working in the domains of Healthcare, MASKED_LOCATION, Pharmaceuticals, Oil and Gas, Health Care systems, and Utility. 
Vast experience in PM documentation & Reports as per need, SRS, BRD, FS and other relevant artifacts.
Vast Experience in As-is To-be processes GAP Analysis. Expert in Feasibility studies, Risk Analysis. 
Associated in the full STLC and has been experienced in all phases of testing
Managed Cross-Functional, Multi-Cultural teams, Matrix based projects involving Architects, Business Analysts, Project Managers, Project Coordinators, Financial Controllers, Cross-Functional/Business SMEs, Developers, Testers/QA, DBA, Infrastructure, IT Security and Release Management Teams.
Skilled at managing collaborations, managing programs/projects, creating new business opportunities and building innovative solutions by integrating technology and business processes, thus providing exceptional client services
Experienced in Data Migration, Data Loads, SAP BI and BW, Data Conversions, building Conversion Logic, Validation Methods, Error Handling Methods
Involved in Testing Types FUT, ITC, Performance Testing, MASKED_NAME, Smoke Test
Created Test Scripts, Test Cases, Test Scenarios
Extensive All Life Cycle Management (ALM), HPQC, JIRA, RTC, RQM 
Involved in Data Modeling, Legacy Data migration, Data integration, with Oracle DB and MS SQL Servers and Data Mining and Data Analytics, Data Analysis 
Involved in Data Modeling, Legacy Data migration, Data integration
Knowledgeable in using Process Improvement Techniques which contributes to better organizational performance, building effective teams, solving problems, improving implementation time frames, and lowering overall cost through aligning technical resources with project objectives.
Ability to multitask for various projects, organizes meetings, update project schedules and deadlines, and create work flow procedures. Build Relationship with business and other stakeholders for effective communications for risk and issues to monitor the progress of the project.
EDUCATION:  MBA HR
CERTIFICATIONS: Success Factors – Employee Central
TECHNICAL SKILL SET:
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
MASKED_LOCATION: British Petroleum
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: May 17 to Till Date
ROLE: SR. PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
Handle a multimillion project aimed to migrate the client Reporting data from On- Premise to MASKED_NAME services using Informatica ETL tool
Extract, Transform and Load the reporting data using Informatica stored procedures, complex, logical mapping, varied granularity from source data base structures to source structures
Handle complex report creation out of Enterprise Data Warehouse using SAP Business Objects 
Introduce Data Visualization tools like Microsoft Power BI and MASKED_LOCATION to internal and external teams.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Understand Client requirements, conduct day to day meetings, mobilizing the resources
Prepare detailed project plan with the Work break structures, time lines, track the progress of the project.
Monitor and regular follow-up on development tasks and activities, with the team
Lead the stake holder meetings with client counter -part and Business Analysts and Data Analysts
Create Daily, weekly, Monthly Reports, on the progress of the projects and walk the client managers, through the progress.
Creating dashboards, graphs and charts with the project status and progress.
Executing the project plan as per Project Management guide lines, with in the specified time lines
Monitor and track the progress on Functional Unit testing, Integration Testing ,User Acceptance Testing and System testing
Track POC (proof of concepts) and Pilot projects
Handled multimillion projects cost estimates & Cost reduction strategy, Resource planning for multiple tracks
Interact with BA/Das to understand the business requirements
Cost mitigation/reduction strategy
Understand existing client technology, architecture and data sources
Worked closely with Developers, Application managers, Architects
Worked in cutting edge technology and agile environment, addressing fast paced business requirement
BDD extensions review and RICEFW creation in TFS Team Foundation System
Environment: Informatica ETL, Informatica PowerCenter 10.1.1, Amazon Web Services Cloud, SAP BO, Microsoft TFS, MS-Office, MS-Project 2010, SharePoint, SAP Web Intelligence, SQL, MASKED_NAME, Data Lake, Hive, MASKED_LOCATION.
MASKED_LOCATION: MEDTRONIC HEALTHCARE
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: MARCH 16 to APRIL 17
ROLE: SR. PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
Objective was to migrate the Analytics data from the legacy system to BO HANA
Replicate, MASKED_LOCATION, compile reports and create in the SAP Webi environment
Streamline analytics, Reports and recreate global reports in the new environment
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Lead internal and external technical consultants on data conversion, system interfaces, data cleansing, data archiving, environment builds for global single instance 
Lead the technical planning, designing, coding and testing of reporting tool. 
Provide leadership and technical guidance to all levels of personnel regarding programming/system related issues for the new ERP reporting environment. 
 Provide guidance on change control and security set-up for a validated software system. 
MASKED_NAME closely application support groups to ensure a global plan is in place for post go-live support. 
Creation of weekly project status reports and attending the weekly status calls with the customer.
Reporting Weekly/Monthly Status of the projects, by creating the Weekly Status Reports, Monthly Financials, etc.
Responsible for creating the project estimates, resource plans and managing scope, planning, tracking, change control, etc., aspects of the projects.
Responsible for effective communication between the project team and the customer. Provide day to day direction to the project team and regular project status to the customer.
Interact with external interface teams, clients and other business analysts.
Maintain and Manage Project Issues, Risks and Change controls.
Conducting daily scrum, sprint retrospectives, constant update of project dashboards and communication of project and team status to stakeholders and help agile teams come up with high level stories and epics estimation.
Facilitate Scrum ceremonies and help the team in removing day-to-day task impediments. 
Work with Product Owner managing and prioritizing the product backlog, coaching/mentoring team for sprint planning/backlog grooming; organize and facilitate sprint retrospective, sprint planning and release planning sessions, attending Product backlog meetings with the product owner.
Coached scrum team members to break down user stories to daily tasks effectively and efficiently. 
Conducting Scrum ceremonies in a geographically distributed environment. 
Consistently recognize by the management team for meeting goals, effective communication using excellent information radiators and improving customer satisfaction by Product backlog grooming, retrospective & sprint planning, writing epic and user stories
Monitor the progress of release and its deliverable and work with engineering teams, keep leadership apprised of Sprint and Release progress.
Project status by generating weekly status reports, and variety of reports and dashboards to the management team and the customer.
ENVIRONMENT: HPQC, MS-Office, MS-Project 2010, MASKED_NAME, SharePoint, MASKED_NAME, SAP BO, SAP Web Intelligence, SAP Crystal Reports, MASKED_LOCATION, Agile Scrum Methodology
CLIENT: ACTELION PHARMACEUTICAL 
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: JANUARY’20 15 TO FEBRUARY 2016
ROLE: SR. PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
To increase service revenue, make it easier the customers to do business with them and create a common look and feel for Clinical Education throughout the care cycle. 
Connect 50 Trading Partners for O2C Processes with IBM Sterling B2B Integrator, SFG, and Map Editor on EDI 810,811,850,855, 856,860,865.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Assisted Project Owner for Vision Document.
Created Lean Product Charter and Project Plan involving scope, time, cost, quality, Resources, risk management Plan, procurement, communications and Stakeholder management.
Extensively involved in communications with all stakeholders, managing the complete project end to end as an Agile Project Manager and Scrum Master.
Supported Business Analyst for requirements gathering and developing user stories and prioritizing with Product owner.
Held Daily standup meeting with project team members inviting relevant stakeholders, project backlog planning meetings, story points allocation, sprint planning meeting, sprint review meetings, retrospective meetings and Monitored continuously and generated reports with release burn down charts, MASKED_NAME of project and issues to be resolved by Business.
Continuously worked on clearing impediments maintaining continuous engagement and communication with stakeholders and Scrum team.
Trained team members with project knowledge and business processes
Refined User Stories for O2C scenarios and obtained approvals from business. 
EDI facilitation O2C Processes with trading partners (Inquiry, Quotation, MASKED_NAME, ATP, Delivery, Shipment,) and MASKED_NAME triggers for facilitating EDI with designated trading partners. Involved in Reporting on customer and marketing data from various Data Warehouse and other some independent Data Marts (Oracle BD, MS SQL Servers) using IBM Cognos and MASKED_LOCATION. 
Managed Data Mapping and File transfers to trading partners with IBM Sterling B2B Integrator, SFG, and Map Editor on EDI 810,811,850,855,860,865 with external venders for electronic data interchange for integration with internal SAP systems with SD, MASKED_LOCATION, FICO.
ENVIRONMENT: ERP (SAP), UML, Oracle, PL/SQL, Visio2003, Visual Basic, MS Office Suite, SM-7, HP ALM, QTP, WindowsNT. IBM Sterling B2B Integrator, SharePoint 2013, Agile Project Manager and Scrum Master
CLIENT: GM
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: MAY ‘2013- DECEMBER’20 14
ROLE: SR. PROJECT MANAGER AND AGILE COACH
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
Implementation of Sap Logistics and Warehouse Management and Integrating processes for EDI with trading partners.
RESPONSIBILTIES
Modeled As-Is processes, defined To-Be and conducted Gap analysis for all processes in the organization. Defined short, medium and long-term business strategy and roadmap. 
Facilitated meetings and workshops to get agreement on scope, timing and resource allocation for the implementation of the various O2C and logistics scenarios and projects. 
Carved roadmaps to implement processes in MASKED_LOCATION and Warehouse Management.
Product Charter and Project Plan involving scope, time, cost, quality, Resources, procurement, communications and Stakeholder management.
Supported Business Analyst for requirements gathering and developing user stories and prioritizing with Product owner. 
Prepared and maintained a Risk Management Plan and register.
Held Daily standup meeting with project team members inviting relevant stakeholders, project backlog planning meetings, story points allocation, sprint planning meeting, sprint review meetings, retrospective meetings and Monitored continuously and generated reports with release burn down charts, MASKED_NAME of project and issues to be resolved by Business.
Actively involved with other Business Analysts in making the Functional Requirements Document (FRD).
Coordination and integration with SAP MM, FICO, PM, PS Closely worked with SAP teams for configuration
ENVIRONMENT: ERP(SAP), MySQL, MASKED_NAME/J2EE, Active Directory, Rational Rose, SDLC, UAT, UML, MS Office, MS projects, MASKED_NAME. Agile, Waterfall Methodology 
CLIENT: PRIME HEALTH CARE
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: SEPTEMBER’2011-FEBRUARY’2013 
AGILE PROJECT MANAGER 
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:  MASKED_LOCATION is multispecialty hospital having chain of hospitals across multiple states in MASKED_LOCATION. The objective of this project is to build a single Clinical Registry solution across various practices like GYN ONC, Neurology and Orthopedics etc.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Facilitate all scrum ceremonies (grooming, sprint planning, retrospectives, daily stand-ups, etc.)
Communicate with other management professionals, engineers, product owners and support specialists on business process improvement
Enact change and continuous improvement increasing the productivity of Scrum teams and the quality of deliverables 
Instructed and modeled core Agile principles of collaboration, prioritization, team accountability and visibility 
Ensured consistent application of scrum methodologies across the scrum teams
Track and communicate team velocity, burn down chart and sprint/release progress
Empowered teams to self-organize and improve their functional knowledge
Protect teams from over-commitment, manage backlog, prioritize resolution of defects/bugs as evidenced by the on-time delivery of 23 major data elements for the registry
Educated teams to create clear and concise epics/stories
Work with business users to understand requirements for business system analysis, forecasting and planning.
Created and maintained communication plan and RACI matrix for smooth and effective execution of project
Managed coordination between client and development team.
ENVIRONMENT: Windows, FHIR Data Model, Data Stage, HBASE, MASKED_NAME, Share Point 2010, Microsoft Project 2010, TFS, Power Designer. Agile and SCRUM Methodology 
CLIENT: CIGNA (Healthcare)
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION:  AUGUST’2009- AUGUST’2011 
ROLE: PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT OBJECTIVES: Developed in-house application, which is used to pull patient data from client databases and send it to HIE. The objective of this project was to implement MASKED_NAME at 50+ client locations and integrate their data with HIE.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Managed onsite and offshore teams comprise of developers and testers in a highly virtual matrix environment.
Successfully managed the HIE integration of 55 hospital sites.
Conducted kick-off meetings with hospitals to define project scope, objectives, resources and deliverables.
Planed and scheduled project timelines and milestones for simultaneous implementation at different hospital sites.
Formulated risk management plan and maintained regular follow-up with clients and development teams for risk mitigation.
Conducted daily calls with team members for issue resolution.
Identified out of scope opportunities and address via out of scope process agreement.
Coordinated with teams to ensure quality and PHI related processes are followed. 
Spear headed scoping and resource planning for multiple simultaneous implementations.
Created executive status report and presented to steering committee.
Conducted weekly status meeting, ensured project is on budget and schedule using variance analysis.
Handled project staffing and coordinated project activities between various project teams. 
Developed and prioritized key deliverables like the Project Management Plan, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, WBS and WBS dictionary.
Coordinated with project stakeholders and globally distributed teams to meet the project specifications.
Was actively involved in Team building activities, which motivated the team to complete the project within time and budget; also did issue resolution, negotiation and requirement analysis.
        ENVIRONMENT: Windows, HL7 Messaging, SQL 2008, .Net, MASKED_NAME, Microsoft Project 2010, TFS, Agile Methodology 
CLIENT: Hartford Steam Boiler/Ebix (Insurance)	
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: OCTOBER’2007- JUNE 2009
ROLE: SR IT PROJECT MANAGER/ PROGRAM MANAGER CONSULTANT
PROJECT OBJECTIVE: Led Data & Analytics, Data Governance and Master Data program with budget of $20M under Transformation Program Office, utilizing MS Project 2010, PeopleSoft, Cognos reporting, MASKED_NAME, excel and Power point.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Heavily involved in MASKED_LOCATION for process development, templates, processes, business strategies & objectives. Built and organized program SharePoint site.
Responsible for effectively initiating, planning, scheduling, estimating, forecasting, coordinating, controlling, managing and delivering all activities for projects and related release initiatives.
Executed Strategy planning program to assess current state, build future state, gap analysis, program roadmap with multiple technical projects aligned to business goals & budget planning.
MASKED_NAME project repositories, project scope statement, roles & responsibilities, work breakdown structure, communications plan, risk management plan & project approvals.
Independently manage the full project life cycle, from initiation through implementation; including (but not limited to) requirements gathering and prioritization, defining scope and schedule, obtaining approvals.
Planned estimated $20M program, 8 core team resources with increasing resources as technical execution started, working globally (MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION) with multiple LOB's.
Worked with Business partners, Stakeholder status reporting, managing scope, schedule & budget
ENVIRONMENT:  MASKED_LOCATION, HL7 Messaging, SQL 2008, .Net, MASKED_NAME, JavaScript, Share Point 2010, Microsoft Project 2010 SCRUM and Agile Methodology 
CLIENT: Travelers (Business Insurance)	
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURATION: MASKED_NAME
ROLE: SR. IT PROJECT MANAGER CONSULTANT
PROJECT OBJECTIVE: Led & executed a very large Enterprise Strategic Initiatives (Operations Data Strategy) Data Warehouse & Business Intelligence program in highly matrix organization utilizing MS Project 2010, IBM TM1 budget tool, MASKED_NAME, excel and Power point, utilizing Waterfall and Agile.
RESPONSIBILITIES:  
Responsible and accountable for effectively initiating, planning, scheduling, estimating, forecasting, coordinating, controlling, managing and delivering all activities for projects and related release initiatives.
Build credibility, establish rapport, and maintain communication with stakeholders at multiple levels, including those external to the organization. Work with cross-functional business teams.
MASKED_NAME and Agile Scrum Methodology to help manage and organize the project and team.
Built project team, acquire resources, project plan, estimate cost & control, prioritizing, risks and issues management. Developed and refined project estimates through Solution Design and manage the Project Management Triangle (time, cost, scope) through Implementation with multiple releases & bug fixing.
Responsible for program management activities within the Enterprise Portfolio governance.
Executed and maintained program management processes and disciplines in the areas of: program schedule and quality management; communications management; human resource management; cost management; procurement management; risk/ issue management; change management.
Coach and Mentor staff in methodology and consulting excellence and encouraged best practice in project management and project planning. 
Managed $2.5M program, 20 resources (onshore and offshore), multiple LOB's.
ENVIRONMENT: PPM Tools (Clarity, MS Project server, MS Project, PeopleSoft), MASKED_NAME, Power point, Excel, Word, SharePoint, OneNote SCRUM and Agile Methodology
CLIENT: MASKED_NAME
MASKED_ADDRESS
DURTION: MARCH ‘2004 - MAY ‘2006
ROLE: BUSINESS ANALYST, SAMPLE MANAGEMENT
PROJECT OBJECTIVE: The project involved various aspects for developing and updating Pharmaceutical samples management system. As a business analyst, I was responsible for gathering adequate requirements for the company to implement the system from various stakeholders. This helped the company to lower their cost on managing pharmaceutical samples.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Worked closely with the Pharmaceutical sales team to gather requirements and understanding the process of allocation planning and management.
Documented BRD supporting documents containing the essential business elements, detailed definitions, and descriptions of the relationships between the actors to analyze and document business data requirements.
Acted as a scrum master and helped product owner prioritize the product backlog and helped team to deliver the product on time.
Organized daily defect SCRUM meeting in order to identify the defects encountered in the current release and worked with the development team for resolution.
Analyzed system requirements to Use Cases, Use Case Scenarios and Business rules.
Extensively involved in coming up with test specifications for the application.
Generated weekly status reports and Adhoc reports to monitor the progress and identify critical points.
Analyzed and optimized the existing business processes using the conceptual modeling methods and documented the business process through DFD (Data Flow Diagram) narratives.
Worked closely with ETL and BI teams during project implementation and actively suggest ways and means to share and optimize work.
Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, and OOD
Worked with Quality Control Teams to develop Test Plan and Test Cases.
Interaction with the developers to report and correct bugs.
Worked with SQL queries for data manipulations.
Participated in the development and creation of the data warehouse.
ENVIRONMENT: Oracle, PL-SQL, IBM Cognos, Framework Manager, IBM Cognos, Business Intelligence Suite 10.2, MASKED_NAME, Rally, MASKED_NAME, SQL Developer, MS Project, IBM Infosphere, MASKED_NAME, Excel, Word, Outlook, MASKED_NAME, XML, AS400, Windows 8/XP, MASKED_NAME, IBM Data manger, ERWin. SCRUM and Agile Methodology
Zimmer Holdings Inc 			                                         
SAP HCM Consultant
MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION	
DURTION: MASKED_NAME ‘2003 - FEBRUARY ‘2004									
Blue Printing, Design, Configuration, Testing and training of the Time Management process of a full life cycle SAP HR implementation 
Worked on the union environment with complex rules and Special payments and FLSA rules
Worked on the Interfaces from third party systems like MASKED_NAME to SAP for getting information Service order numbers and interface to ADP from SAP  for Payroll
Configured various rule for Vacation quotas, Sick leave etc and also worked on the rules for prorating quota generation for the new hires 
Worked on CATS with various user exits for checking the number of worked hours from the cats for entering the absences, MASKED_LOCATION with work orders and WBS elements 
Worked on enhancement with the cats for checking the MASKED_NAME and absence for minimum incremental check like 2 hours,MASKED_ADDRESS should not be taken more than 16 days a year.
MASKED_NAME 								
SAP HCM Consultant
Hanover, NH	
DURTION: JULY ‘2001- DECEMBER ‘MASKED_ADDRESS party payroll like Ceridian, Bline etc
Worked on the complex integration aspects of cats time sheets with the PS, cProjects and xRPM
Conducted the design workshops and the requirement gathering sessions with  various client personals
Efficiently worked on the HR mini master concepts
Worked on IDOCs and interfaces to bring the data from HRe system to the SAP FT system to bring the master data and the absence data
Worked on the complex architecture environment an with the various integration issues
Worked on the federated portal strategy to enable the user to enter the time on the time sheet
Worked with Technical folks assisting them in writing the technical design specifications
Cameron 							                 
Functional Consultant
Houston, TX	
DURTION: MARCH ‘2000 - MAY ‘2001
Worked on  the Configuration of ESS/MSS from the Time management Perspective
Responsible for understanding the functional specifications  and do the knowledge transfer session.
Responsible for reviewing the developer Technical Design Document to ensure all requirements have been met
Worked as a liaison between the client and the Technical team 
Worked on the Adhoc queries and custom reports to satisfy the client needs
Creating the Approval View for MSS and configured the links on the portal
Gave leadership and design direction for time interfaces, time quota configuration, time reporting and project milestones to project management 
Worked on the data conversion from various legacy systems to SAP by using LSMW and by using the program HRBP/ZRDTT00
Worked on Creation of Variants for various reports by using table TVARVC