MASKED_NAME: MASKED_PHONE
Email: MASKED_EMAIL
 Business Analyst  
Summary:
Over 9+ Years of experience in Business Analysis, Design, Software Testing, Product Configuration, Project Co-ordination with Ender user training.
Have experience in Post production and Support which includes MASKED_NAME to the end users and preparation of End user manual and Business Process Procedures (BPP)
Adept in analyzing information system needs, evaluating end-user requirements, custom designing solutions for complex information systems management.
Extensive experience in Lead position with expertise in Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Testing coordination etc. Interface with business users to assess business needs and create business requirements well within timeframe exceeding the expectations.
Practical knowledge of SDLC methodologies like Waterfall, Spiral, ASAP and Agile.
Worked extensively on Oracle Cloud HCM(Core HR, Benefits, Payroll, compensation, talent management)
Experienced in the documentation of system and business requirements.
Proficient in creating UML diagrams including Use Case, Sequence, Activity Diagrams.
Experienced in developing and maintaining overall testing methodology and strategy, documenting Test plans, creating Test cases and executing Test MASKED_NAME based on baseline requirements.
Experienced in performing Functional Testing, Regression Testing, User Acceptance Testing (UAT). Expert in Manual Testing and well versed with various test management tool like Mercury Quality Center.
Sound knowledge of Utility and Contract Account Receivable and Payable domain.
Proficient in Microsoft Office skills including Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, MASKED_NAME.
MASKED_NAME of Six Sigma. 
Coordinating resources, prioritize group activities and establish schedules to ensure that plans are consistent with overall company objectives
Sound communication skills, self-starter, team player and quick learner with strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Proven capability to meet deadlines and work under pressure situations.
Capable of forming and maintaining positive and productive working relationships in internal, external, independent, and team environments.
Technical Skills:
Databases:                    MS SQL Server, Microsoft Access
Operating Systems:     Windows Vista, 7, 13.
Modeling Tools:   	MASKED_NAME, scrum wise, HP ALM QC, Rally
Office Tools:                 Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point
ERP System:                Peoplesoft
Education:
Bachelor of Engineering
Work Experience :
Ascension Health, MASKED_LOCATION, MO                                                                              Aug 2017- Sep MASKED_ADDRESS
Responsibilities: 
Test Execution and Reporting of the status in daily scrum call
Tracking Issues and Communicating with Developer Team Offshore and get it fixed in time.
Involved in Business Process Testing using HP ALM Quality Center 12.0.
MASKED_NAME Testing using SQL to inspect & Verify Back end Database Table updates.
Providing functional support for HR, Payroll, MSS applications and their interface
Worked on Enrollment forms to be used later with Open Enrollment and event MASKED_NAME for participating employees.
Created testing strategy documents for unit, system and Integration testing for self-service applications.
Verified time entry data from MASKED_NAME, schedules and time card entries. 
Performed cross browser testing and mobile device testing for the Adaptive Responsiveness
Responsible for interacting with developers to fix the problems, especially pertaining to the databases which are not populated to the online screen when customer enters his quote.
Constant communication and collaboration with cross functional teams
Coordinated and managed daily agile meetings and addressed end to end issues and resolutions on a daily basis.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel Word, PowerPoint, Project), SharePoint, MS-Visio 2010, Oracle HCM, MASKED_NAME, HP ALM.
State of MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, DE                                                                               Jan 2017 – July MASKED_ADDRESS is the State of MASKED_LOCATION’s central payroll operations group for all state agencies, school districts and charter schools districts, and charter schools. PHRST system is integrated software application and is the HCM ERP system.  
Responsibilities:
Interacted with HCM Team to gather the requirements to start the Testing process by understanding the Business process and Blue Print for implementation.
Designed the Test Plans and Test Cases specifying clearly the Test Data and the Result Expected.
Coordinated team meetings, Created Requirements in the Mercury Quality Center, Logged Defects in MASKED_LOCATION, pulled Defects in Report and conducted the team meetings, mentored team members, coordinated with other module leads in order to complete the testing with in the time Frame.
Created test scripts for unit and integration testing using HP Quality Center Test Tool and
coordinated ITC testing for the user in the same environment.
Validate the menu verbiage plays as documented and menu options route as indicated in call flow documentation.
Worked with the Technical/functional Team and Business Users to design HR customizations.
Worked on HCM setup for company information, location, department, salary grades, job codes, benefit programs, plan types, pay groups and other payroll related issues.
Involved in testing various inbound and outbound files.
IVR tests and screen pop to validate accurate data transfer into the MASKED_NAME application for call flow testing efforts.
Created &amp; executed test cases for Time Approval and Time Load processes.
Developed test cases, test procedures and test scripts.
Responsible for Integration, functional, security and regression testing.
Co-ordinated user acceptance testing handling multiple business process users.
Developed test cases/test data for Preproduction testing.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint),  MASKED_NAME 9.2, QC ALM. 
Wheels, Des plains, IL.                                                                                         Dec 2014 – Dec MASKED_ADDRESS 
Wheels is World's most experienced automotive fleet leasing and management company, and trusted industry leader, Wheels provide organizations around the world with company cars and trucks along with state of art services and support. Wheels is known for its Strategic fleet management, Global services, cutting edge technologies, Vendor management, Quality services these are embedded in the wheels culture ensuring a consistent level of excellence for all client. 
Responsibilities:
Interacted with the Stakeholders, Business Users, finalized Business Requirements.
Performed Requirement Analysis generated Document of Understanding and project deliverables.
Coordinated with Management, Business Areas, and Application Owners and designed
Functional Specifications in accordance with the scope of the project.
Coordinated and Managed daily Agile meetings and addressed end to end issues and
              resolutions on a daily basis
Identified the current Business Process, defined Use Cases from the requirements, created
Sequence Diagrams using tools like DIA, MS-VISIO and developed a revised Business Process Model.
Actively involved in prioritizing requirements deliverables throughout the SDLC in association with the Business Partners.
HR and Self Service Implementation for 7000 MASKED_LOCATION employees
UAT and Parallel Testing planning and implementation. Conversion assistance.
Collect and document HR requirements
Gap analysis for all HR requirements
Design/Develop application extensions for multiple gaps. Including:
         - Data entry edits and default values for key HR data
         - GL Cost allocation design for 10 General Ledgers
         - Automation of Benefits Eligibility Determination Test Execution and Reporting .
Tracking Issues and Communicating with Developer Team Offshore and get it fixed in time.
Involved in Business Process Testing using HP ALM Quality Center 12.0.
MASKED_NAME Testing using SQL to inspect & Verify Back end Database Table updates.
Performed cross browser testing and mobile device testing for the Adaptive Responsiveness
Responsible for interacting with developers to fix the problems, especially pertaining to the databases which are not populated to the online screen when customer enters his quote.
Constant communication and collaboration with cross functional teams
Coordinated and managed daily agile meetings and addressed end to end issues and resolutions on a daily basis.
Participated and Organized daily stand up meetings (scrum call), Retrospective meetings, Sprint review and sprint demo.
Prepared documentation on the user manuals, Go-Live and Post-Live support and helped the end users as and when required by upgrading their knowledge.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel, Word, PowerPoint), MASKED_NAME, JIRA, SharePoint, MASKED_LOCATION ,MASKED_NAME,  Oracle HCM.
Capital One Financials, MASKED_LOCATION                                                                            Jan 2014 – Nov MASKED_ADDRESS/ Quality Analyst
Capital one is a diversified bank that offers a broad array of financial products and services to the customers, small business and commercial clients. Capital one has one of the most widely recognized brand in MASKED_LOCATION. As one of the nation’s tap MASKED_ADDRESS banks based on deposits, capital one serves banking customers through bank locations primarily in MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, Taxes, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION, and MASKED_LOCATION.
Responsibilities:
During requirement analysis phase interacted with the Stakeholders, Business Users defined & finalized Business Requirements.
Performed Requirement Analysis generated Document of Understanding and project deliverables.
Coordinated with Management, Business Areas, and Application Owners and designed Functional Specifications in accordance with the scope of the project.
Coordinated and Managed daily Agile meetings and addressed end to end issues and resolutions on a daily basis
Actively involved in prioritizing requirements (vs.) MASKED_NAME throughout the SDLC in association with the Business Partners.
Created reminders (internal and external to project) and task alerts, to ensure that every one is aware of the upcoming changes in the Infrastructure and ensured that the Infrastructure is Silent. 
Ensured that all the procedures, processes, issues, problems are documented prior to, and after the Release and used them towards the Knowledge Items and MASKED_NAME for further Releases.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel Word, PowerPoint, Project), Innotas, Rally, SharePoint, MS-Visio 2010.
Hallmark Health Care, Hauppauge, NY        	                                 	               Dec 2012- Dec2013
(MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME hospital, MASKED_LOCATION diagnostic, MASKED_LOCATION MASKED_NAME)
Business Analyst
Healthcare industry, we are not just a job sourcing agency. We offer clients strategic solutions by sourcing highly trained travel nurses skilled in various nursing specialties as well as healthcare professionals suitable for all other allied healthcare jobs. We do not consider our job done by just sourcing personnel. We are with our clients through the life of their staffing and recruitment needs.
Responsibilities:
Conduct Meetings with stakeholders, subject matter experts( SMEs), and end users at all levels covering multiple departments  for requirements elicitation and defining business processes.
Document detailed business and functional requirements and enhancement documents after conducting user interviews and performing GAP Analysis between existing processes and to-be scenarios.
Assisted in Analysis and expansion of adult day health services program via marketing, public relations , recruiting new client though various members of health care community.
Developed business Use Case for new product functionality after conducting requirement elaboration sessions with client teams.
Conduct analysis and feasibility studies to enhance application functionality and improve  user experience (Einstein 2).
Lead weekly project status meetings between the project development team, onsite consultants and clients. Worked closely with the QA team to help create manual test cases and maintain test plans.
Coordinate end to end process business process from posting of an open item, return process, installment process, write off etc.
Responsible for resolving various multiple issues and converging conflicts between requests from various  stakeholders.
Maintained the requirement Traceability matrix (RTM) to track the coverage of Requirements vs designed test cases.
Created various UML diagrams including Use case, Sequence, Activity Diagrams etc.
Developed High Level Business Flows using MS MASKED_NAME.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel Word, PowerPoint), MASKED_NAME, SharePoint 2010.
CRI-Criterion Shell, MASKED_LOCATION, TX.                    	                                                    June 2011 – Nov MASKED_ADDRESS / SAP SD module
CRI Criterion is a Catalyst Company which provide a broad range of high performance catalysts to support renewable fuels production by thermochemical processes including pyrolysis and gasification.
Responsibilities:
Documented the detailed pricing condition types and pricing procedure, customer pricing procedure and document pricing procedure.
Worked on Availability Check and availability to promise for stock maintenance
Configured different types of contracts and schedule agreement
Created BRD’s for Shipping Point, Route, Customer Master Records, and Material Master Record.
Configured components related to Sales Orders, Deliveries, and MASKED_NAME.
Created effective SMOKE testing and SPRINT Test Suites for execution and tracking.
Test Execution and Reporting of the status in daily scrum call
Tracking Issues and Communicating with Developer Team Offshore and get it fixed in time.
Involved in Business Process Testing using HP ALM Quality Center 12.0.
Environment: SAP ECC 6.0 , SD , EH&S, FICO , ALM, MASKED_NAME wise
Fidelity Investments, Merrimack, NH           	                                                   Sep 2010–May MASKED_ADDRESS
Fidelity Investments has wide range of financial products like mutual funds, retirement plans, annuities, asset management. It has different source systems in various locations. This project is about calculating the compensation for agents who sell Fidelity products. This is a data warehousing project wherein the data from several source systems is picked and sent to data marts for agent compensation calculation after a few validation checks. Data is picked from 7 mainframe source systems and sent to a staging area using ETL. The data then is directed towards a transaction enrichment data store. After a series of validation checks and filtering, the data is finally sent to the data mart. This data is utilized for the downstream applications.
Responsibilities:
Conducted detailed Requirement gathering, Gap Analysis, Impact Analysis by interacting with internal stakeholders, business users in understanding their business processes, in understanding their proposed IT system.
Created specs for the data extraction, cleansing, validation & population using automated Decision Stream scripts.
Developed activity flow use case diagrams for a module to make the IT team understand the functionality of various scenarios.
Designed the detailed Data-Models of Conformed Dimensions in the worker’s compensation subject areas, corresponding to the agent balances & Journal Detail Fact entities.
Involved in Design mappings, created data flow diagrams and documented the ETL high level and low-level design approach.
Designed workflows using Informatica Power Center to perform ETL on the data from the
staging area to the transaction enrichment data store and to the compensation data marts.
Developed various transformations like expression, joiner, and aggregator as per the requirements and executed the workflows and verified the data on data mart.
Worked with DBA teams to transitional logical data model to physical database design.
Environment: Microsoft Office (Excel Word, PowerPoint, Project), Rational Requisite Pro, MS MASKED_NAME.
Public Service Electric and Gas (PSE&G), MASKED_LOCATION, NJ                                      	July 2007 -- Jun MASKED_ADDRESS/ SAP ISU CCS- Billing and invoicing functional Consultant
Public Service Electric and Gas PSE&G is one of the largest combined electric and gas companies in MASKED_LOCATION and is also MASKED_LOCATION oldest and largest publicly owned utility. PSE&G implemented SAP ISU replacing the  legacy CIS system.
Responsibilities:
Performed as is study to understand the Billing and Invoicing needs of the residential/ commercial customers of PSE&G
During the design phase, worked with the development team to ensure testability, reliability, usability, maintainability and performance by documenting processes and workflow, identifying cross functional and organizational process improvement opportunities.
Identified business stakeholders, gathered, discussed and refined business requirements by interacting with users.
Formulated clear, well-defined Business Requirement MASKED_NAME) and Functional Requirement Document(FRD) for the IT development team to work on
Facilitated the project manager to prepare Joint Application development(JAD) sessions to identify business rules and requirements and then documented them in a format for inter and intra department review.
Created Use cases for any new and/or updated functionality of the product.
Involved in doing End to End testing, Regression Testing of Quarter Releases. Tool used is Mercury Test Director, Geneva Billing system.
Involved in training of new members joining the team.
Demonstrated strong ability to work on multiple tasks while successfully meeting established goals and deadlines. Approaches all tasks in an organized and structured manner.
Worked on the business objects of both technical and Business master data.
Configured & extended the Enterprise structure.
Environment: SAP 4.7 and ECC 6.0, ISU, SD , FICO , ALM, MASKED_NAME wise 