MASKED_NAME Analyst
Bellevue, WA
Business/Systems Analyst professional with 12 years of experience with excellent communication and analytical skills, Solution Development, requirements gathering in managing projects using Agile methodologies.
Ability to coordinate and lead cross-functional teams towards task completion.
Ability to translate high-level business wants and needs into technical requirements including workflow diagrams.
Participate in system design sessions and provide input to architecture
Experience designing and authoring agile user stories based on functional analysis of epic stories and assisting developers in implementation of features.
Knowledge of software development cycle, testing, and agile release train methodologies.
Working with scrum master for sprint/Iteration planning activities.
Document design specifications and other system-related information.
Provide technical guidance or support for the development or troubleshooting of systems.
Develop, document and revise system design procedures and review test procedures, and quality standards.
Provide advice on project costs, design concepts, or design changes.
Effective leadership, analytical, technical writing, and verbal communication skills.
Experience in project management managing multiple teams concurrently.
Technical Skills:
Agile (Rally, TDP, JIRA),Waterfall, SDLC, QA
MS Excel, MASKED_NAME, MASKED_NAME, Microsoft SharePoint
Requisite Pro, Rational Quality Manager, HP QC
Working knowledge of using SQL queries
Design of Micro services.
MASKED_NAME files (JSON) for APIs
Knowledge of APIGEE proxy APIs implementation
Work Experience
System Analyst –I Net Soft Inc(Sept 2017 to till date)
Project Description
Client:T-Mobile Bellevue Washington ((Sep 2017 to till date)
Communication product: Provide a new product to the T-Mobile for Business marketplace to support interactive unified communications and collaboration via app-based real-time voice and text, conference calling, and fax including support of a cloud PBX without the traditional barriers of the GSM network. 
Contribution 
As a system analyst of digital technology and development team, is responsible for:
Communicate with client to understand the business / system specific requirements.
Facilitating meetings for the team. This includes, preparing, moderation &post processing
Interacting with Product owner
Understanding the requirements and creating user stories
Interacting with team and have them understand the functionality
Write user stories, acceptance criteria
Participate in grooming sessions and actively think for all requirements and capture those
MASKED_NAME files (JSON) for APIs and communicate to development team
MASKED_NAME end points in POSTMAN tool.
Able to work and coordinate with other teams’ scrum master to discuss any conflicts from product integration perspective
Helping with the release planning.
Being familiar with the team’s work
Keeping in touch with every stakeholder regularly
Helping the team to continuously improve their process.
Reflecting issues to the team through observation from outside of the team
Business Analyst/Consultant - Tech Mahindra (Feb 2011 to Sept 2017)
Project Description  
Client: AT&T
AT&T Collaborate: Middletown New Jersey ((May 2015 to Sept 2017)
AT&T Collaborate™ offers a flexible hosted voice solution that gives you the traditional voice features you need and the collaboration tools you want, regardless of your work location.
Contribution 
As a system engineer of Ordering team, is responsible for  
Perform System Engineer(T2) activities for Trinity/Hosted Communications (AT&T Collaborate) for ordering system. 
Provide e2e knowledge and expertise, support T3 SEs in researching, tracking and writing requirement and user stories for GUI, database, and backend processing as well as Application Interface Documents.
Support defect management process by providing support for e2e data flow and provide support for Developers and System Testers in defect calls and chats.
Work with product team and user experience team to drive the best user experience and flow. 
Provide impact assessments and estimates. 
Partner with extended team members from e2e teams to ensure successful deployment.
Requirement Analysis 
Writing User Stories since the project is on Agile 
Review Application Design documents and test cases to ensure developers and system testers have clear understanding of expectations  
Designing of Architecture  
Reviews on other Impacted applications and interfaces 
System/Application Testing Support 
Deployment & Support activities 
Project Description
Client: AT&T Noida, MASKED_LOCATION ((Feb 2014 to Apr 2015)
GCP DPPCO: Supporting AT&T’s Target Architecture systems (Sales Express and SSDF) & FMO applications ADOPT (Design, Price, Propose, Contract, and MASKED_NAME) applications to support Sales teams in the FMO and PMO ordering flows.
Contribution 
As a system engineer of Sales team, is responsible for  
Owning inventory management API
Work with product team and user experience team to drive the best user experience and requirements analysis for Inventory API
Writing User Stories for any code/test impact on the API   
Designing and creation of Application Interface Document (AID) and High Level Document (HLD)  
Reviews on other Impacted applications and interfaces 
Support defect management process by providing support for data flow and provide support for developers and system testers in defect calls and chats.
Project Description
Client: AT&T, MASKED_LOCATION, MASKED_LOCATION ((Dec 2012 to Feb 2014)
AT&T Business Manager: ABM is the front end ordering system which provides the BellSouth Large and Small Business groups a straightforward, functional interface to support the creation and modification of regional service orders.  This system provides a graphical user interface with backup data retrieval and flexible window presentation.  It provides Service Order negotiation and generation functionality for Small Business and Large Business customers in the MASKED_LOCATION region.
Contribution
Part of front end team, was responsible for:
Attending the business requirement meetings.
Creating High Level Document and Impact analysis
Communicate with client to understand the business / system specific requirements.
Coordinates with Client, Product Owner, Designers, Architects, and Technical Leads through regular grooming sessions to define user stories and API requirements for each technical project including acceptance criteria and traceability
Performs impact and dependency analysis with Tech Leads and engineering stakeholders 
Reviews on other Impacted applications and interfaces
Participation in daily scrum meeting.
Providing requirement and its traceability with business requirement (Waterfall Project))  
System/Application Testing Support
Deployment & Support activities
Project Manager -Netwing Technologies – MASKED_LOCATION MASKED_LOCATION 
May 2009 to Dec 2010
Contribution
Overall Project management by understanding the client’s requirements, delivering the quality results and reports, meeting the client deadlines in the required cost estimated.
Analysis of the requirements provided by client
Preparation of Business Requirement Document
Developing project plan
Helping the team in all technical aspects
Preparation of RFP documents
Vendor Management
Senior Engineer - Independent Mobile Infrastructure Ltd, MASKED_LOCATION MASKED_LOCATION 
Dec 2007 to Feb 2009
Contribution
This essential position at the state level is a key determinant of where IMIL erects its MASKED_LOCATION towers and reports to the Head of Circle Operations, with functional reporting to the GM - Operations Planning at HQ. Administrative reporting is to the Circle Head.
As a senior engineer, was responsible for 
Technical data analysis
Project plan tracking with inputs from all stakeholders.
Updating existing & planned database
Team management
RF Engineer – Nutek India Ltd, (Feb 2006 to Dec 20007)
Client: Ericsson, Gurugram India
Contribution
GSM RF Performance maintenance, stats monitoring with trouble shooting and optimization on GSM-1800 and Frequency planning of new sites.
As a team member, was responsible for 
Drive Test including voice and data for GSM
Optimize system performance based on field test data and reports
Updating existing & planned database
Perform frequency/carrier planning, traffic and capacity analysis
Education
Bachelor of Engineering – 2005 batch