ROLE: Staff Full-Stack Engineer (all genders)
SOURCE: Arbeitnow
URL: https://www.arbeitnow.com/jobs/companies/kaufland-e-commerce/staff-full-stack-engineer-all-genders-cologne-343142

Anstellungsdetails

Permanent Contract, Full- or Part-Time, Remote or Cologne / Darmstadt / Dsseldorf / Berlin

Info

Who we are

We operate the international 
online marketplaces
 of Kaufland: Several thousand sellers and millions of products make us one of the fastest growing online marketplaces. Ours is a dynamic corporate culture that merges a start-up mentality with the opportunities offered by a large corporation. We combine knowledge and many years of experience in e-commerce with flat hierarchies and a highly motivated team.

We love flexibility! You have the freedom to choose whether you want to work remotely (within Germany) or at one of our offices in Cologne, Darmstadt, Dsseldorf, or in our co-working space in Berlin. You decide what works best for you!

Day by day, our Tech & Product Team of about 400 experts pursues the goal of creating the best possible customer shopping experience for our online marketplace. Through innovative technical developments, they not only create an outstanding shopping experience but also lay the foundation for an optimal selling experience for our sellers. Learn more about our division, areas, and cross-functional teams 
here
!

Aufgaben

Your tasks  this is what awaits you in detail

You handle complex technical dependencies independently to ensure smooth integration and minimal conflicts across our entire system landscape

You drive performance optimization continuously by identifying and addressing bottlenecks across our entire application landscape

You develop and maintain complex web applications autonomously using our core technologies, Node.js and Vue.js

You manage system monitoring, including the integration of tools like Datadog, to ensure the high performance and reliability of our systems

You implement reliable and scalable Server-Side Rendering (SSR) solutions within your domain of ownership to enhance the user experience

You design, develop, and deploy scalable, maintainable, and efficient microservices to support our long-term architecture

You provide expert technical guidance and mentorship to cross-functional teams, acting as a key consultant within your area of expertise

Profil

Your profile  this is what we expect from you

You bring extensive experience in solving diverse engineering problems using the tools and frameworks that best serve the problem domain

You possess profound knowledge of TypeScript and Vue.js, or you are highly accomplished with other modern frontend frameworks

You have a solid background in backend application development, specifically in Node.js, PHP, or other relevant languages

You demonstrate operational excellence through your knowledge of modern testing, debugging, monitoring, and deployment techniques

You use your adaptive technical thinking to build responsive applications across various API paradigms while maintaining a solid understanding of infrastructure

You ideally have experience running efficient A/B tests and validating ideas through high-iteration cycles to drive product growth

You are a proactive communicator who takes ownership, challenges inefficient processes, and thrives in an international environment

You are fluent in English (C1) and enjoy working in an international environment

Benefits

What we offer

Create your own work-life balance:
 You have the flexibility to choose between working remotely (within Germany) or from one of our locations in Cologne, Darmstadt, Dsseldorf, or our co-working space in Berlin!

Do you want to move to Germany?
 No problem  we offer you an attractive relocation package to give you a smooth start.

Urban Sports Club and RSG Group Fitness Studios:
 Get top deals for fitness, swimming, yoga and more

Mental Well-Being:
 We support you on your well-being journey with special offerings such as Instahelp, the digital platform for online psychological counseling

Vacation & Sabbatical:
 Enjoy 30 days of vacation per year and the opportunity to take a sabbatical once you have been part of the team for a certain period!

Option for Pluxee restaurant vouchers:
 Buy Pluxee vouchers through us and benefit from tax-advantaged meal allowances!

Deutschlandticket:
 We subsidise your train season ticket for more mobility

Employee Discount:
 You will receive a monthly coupon for 
Kaufland.de

Free choice of operating system:
 MacOS or Ubuntu Linux, it's up to you

Boost your growth:
 Benefit from our online language learning programs, diverse in-house training, and our automated 360-degree feedback. We cover the costs for relevant conferences, training opportunities, and approved team workshops to strengthen personal interactions

This is who we are:
 Our dynamic culture combines flat hierarchies, a start-up mentality, an international team of over 65 nationalities, and the strength of the Schwarz Group to provide you an agile and secure working environment.

We are team players:
 From day one, you will connect not only with your team but also with others through our 
digital onboarding journey
, the 
buddy program
, and regular team and company events, all-hands meetings, 
powerful mornings
, and much more!

Check out our 
Principles
 & our 
blog
 for even more insights into our company culture!

Diversity at Kaufland e-commerce

We welcome applications from everyone, regardless of skin colour, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, disability, ethnic origin, religion and ideology. We are signatories to the Charta der Vielfalt (German Diversity Charter)  because we know that extraordinary things can only be achieved with diversity. Read more 
here
!

Bewerben

Why are you the perfect fit for this position?

Don't bother with cover letters - we're interested in facts and figures! Feel free to share your Github profile with us in your application.

How would you like to be addressed?

Feel free to add the following pronouns "she/her", "him/he" or "they/them" optionally (e.g. after your name) in your CV.

As we have very international teams, we would highly appreciate it to receive your CV or profile link in English.

Ansprechpartner

Your contact person: Verena Schilmann

Kaufland e-commerce Services GmbH & Co. KG

Postal address:

Habsburgerring 2

50674 Kln

We are looking forward to your application!

Find 
Jobs in Germany
 on Arbeitnow